                               O----------O
                               | LEMMINGS |
                               O----------O
                           FAQ/Walkthrough v1.1
         The guide that is the solution to your Lemming problems!
                     Written by Snow Dragon (C) 2002.
                           All rights reserved.

    This FAQ is dedicated to Neal Lundberg, whose floppy drive trashed my
   original version of this FAQ more than a year ago. He will be satisfied
                      with this new conception, I think. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             TABLE OF CONTENTS
                             =================
                          A Back Story to the FAQ
                                  Updates
                              Intro and Notes
                                How to Play
                        Helpful Tips and Techniques
                             Appendix of Traps
                                Walkthrough
                        Credits & Legal Disclaimers

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          A BACK STORY TO THE FAQ
                          =======================
It may seem extremely odd for an FAQ to have a back story behind it, but this 
FAQ is something special to me, something that touches me deep down. For this 
document should have been published a very long time ago - early June 2001, 
to be exact. It was all finished up and everything and was twenty-four pages 
long. Not exactly book length, and I thought it could have been longer 
myself, but it was a submission worthy of honor in the annals of GameFAQs. 
With that in mind, I was ready to go to a friend's house. I had the whole 
thing stored on a floppy disk and the plan was to submit it almost instantly 
upon arriving at the friend's house. (I was just going to use his computer in 
the interest of convenience. Since then, everything I've submitted has been 
off a hard drive to minimize failure of such.)

I was trying to open up the floppy drive to access my walkthrough, my 
beautiful walkthrough that I was so proud of, and the disk wasn't reading. 
Leave it up to my friend to tell me at that moment, "Oh, my floppy drive 
doesn't work."

MY FLOPPY DRIVE DOESN'T WORK. What made it worse was how nonchalantly he said 
it.

I remember it like it was yesterday. Several frightening blue error screens 
followed, and when I got the disk into a working floppy drive and opened up 
the A: window, nothing was on the disk. 24 pages of work, translating to 
nearly five hours of my life (I'm good at Lemmings, so I completed it pretty 
fast), was gone. Totally wiped off the face of the earth. Fortunately, I 
don't harbor resentment about these kinds of things, and I just learned never 
to use that friend's floppy drive again.

Since that horrifying incident, however, he's gotten a new computer with 
Windows XP and a working A: drive, and I've learned not to rely on floppy 
disks to hold FAQs unless I'm transferring it from one comp to another. 
Everything is okay now, and it is with a shattering burst of revitalized 
energy that I am re-introducing the Definitive Lemmings FAQ & Walkthrough, 
which should have been my first FAQ ever (King's Quest V now holds that 
honor), but will now become my 23rd published document on the Internet. 

You may see this entire spiel as pointless rambling and take no interest 
whatsoever in it. I don't care what others' opinions are; this section is up 
here to serve as a memorial to the original walkthrough, and I find it 
important to only myself to recognize this lost work. If you have had an FAQ 
slip through your fingers at some point and you sympathize with me, that's 
great. I just wanted to remember what should have been available to the 
Public Gaming Domain a long time ago. With this revisited walkthrough, I've 
been able to expand on the original text, add things that I didn't have the 
foresight to add the first time around, and make things easier to understand 
for everybody, myself included. That's the story behind this FAQ. I hope you 
find it useful in all its aspects, and I would like to hear from anyone with 
questions at any time. My inbox is open.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  UPDATES
                                  =======

7-22-02: What an idiot I am! In the rush to get this FAQ submitted, I forgot
         that I had left the solution to 3 Mayhem ("It's hero time!") in a
         state of incompletion. Fortunately, I spotted it, replayed the 
         level, added the solution, and the mistake has been rectified. This 
         is now truly the Definitive Lemmings Guide.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              INTRO AND NOTES
                              ===============
Now that you've read or skipped completely over the back story, you probably 
already know whether you read it or not that this is an FAQ/walkthrough for 
the original Lemmings, published in 1991 by Psygnosis and re-released in CD 
format by Slash in 1995. That CD also includes the pseudo-sequel "Oh No! More 
Lemmings", a game I would enjoy giving the FAQ treatment to as well since it 
is much harder than its predecessor. Within this walkthrough lies the answer 
to any question you could possibly come up with. My walkthroughs all have 
different issues to tackle, and some of these can cause confusion at some 
point, so I like to add these notes prior to the walkthrough so that nobody 
e-mails me with questions I find annoying. We'll get to those notes in a 
second.

On an unrelated topic, those of you that are familiar with my game-related 
works on the Internet will now notice a more-than-subtle change in format 
from my other 22 FAQs. Using Word, I've tried to get the section headers as 
centered as possible without automatically formatting it that way, and two 
lines of dashes now visibly separate the different sections, so that it 
doesn't all look like one massive document with no pauses. I hope this is 
more helpful for everyone, not to mention easier on the eyes. If you like 
what you see, give me some feedback at the e-mail address in the notes below.

Speaking of those notes, here they are, in no particular order:

** Some of this walkthrough is written from memory, but what I wasn't able to
   recall from the recesses of my brain, I replayed using the CD version of
   Lemmings, released by the Slash Corporation in 1995. There are a few
   changes in it from the floppy disk DOS version that may seem minor but can
   lead to big screw-ups if those differences aren't distinguished. A prime
   example is that on the Slash CD, the splat distance has been increased
   slightly, so the Lemmings can fall a little farther without dying. If you
   are playing the floppy disk DOS version, I will indicate when these
   changes have a notable impact on a level's solution (example: 13 Fun).

** If you are playing with the floppy disk DOS version, you will occasionally
   be asked to insert the disk in order for the program to run. This is 
   merely a form of copy-protection. Just keep it in an easy-to-find place at  
   all times.

** Multitasking is essential to victory in some levels. If you're not sure of
   the techniques that will lead all the Lemmings to the exit in cases of
   extreme duress, look at the Helpful Tips and Techniques section. This has
   a veritable encyclopedia of little hints and cool tricks that will help
   you out when trying to beat those hardcore levels.

** Of course, if you've never played Lemmings or any of its variants ever in
   your life, you'll want to take a look at the How to Play section.

** Not sure what some of those contraptions that are killing your Lemmings
   are? Look in the Appendix of Traps for more details.

** I have seen some walkthroughs for Lemmings before, and the level solutions
   appear to be jumbled together in a mess of steps I find unsatisfactory and
   not conducive to helping anyone in any way. Therefore, instead of a long
   and messy paragraph for every single level, level solutions will be
   presented in an easily comprehensible step-by-step format. To make optimum
   use of the step-by-step, try printing out only the part you need help with
   and crossing out or highlighting each step as you complete it.

** All steps will be preceded by a plus sign (+) to tell them apart.

** Within this walkthrough, you will get to see a level's vital statistics
   (how many, percentage to save, release rate, time allotted, difficulty
   rating) along with the level solution. It will look like the following
   Reasonable Facsimile that I have constructed:

      LEVEL #   LEVEL NAME
      NUMBER (TO BE SAVED)
      RELEASE RATE   TIME

   I don't have to list the difficulty rating - the level will be filed under
   the appropriate subsection.

** No passwords are provided in this walkthrough. They can be easily written
   down after you complete a level.

** I haven't said this of any of my other walkthroughs, but I've heard it in
   various places and it's true: don't read through this entire thing before
   playing and then leap into Lemmings expecting to do a phenomenal job on
   every level. To read the whole document before playing the game may spoil 
   many of the game's better elements for you. Only find that which pertains
   to your current problem and nothing more.

** Finally, the biggest thing about this document: contacting me with
   relevant questions about it. If for some reason you feel an undying urge
   to get a hold of me with your questions, comments, requests, suggestions,
   errors you feel compelled to point out, and all other general forms of
   feedback, just send your message to <eubanks1084@hotmail.com>. I went to
   great pains to explain what I like to see in your e-mail in my last
   walkthrough, and I will reiterate those two points here.

      1. Whatever your e-mail is in relation to, I want that in the subject
         line. If it's not there, your e-mail will most likely get deleted
         as soon as I see it. It's nothing personal against you. I just need
         to be able to scope out the FAQ stuff in the midst of the myriad
         spam I've been getting the past few months. At the very least,  
         mentioning the name of the game you're having trouble with will help 
         me out in that area. If you don't want what you've sent me to be
         considered bulk mail, then follow this criterion and I'll read it.

      2. Reading your mail, however, does not necessarily guarantee a kindly
         worded reply. Before you click that Send button, TRIPLE-CHECK to
         make absolutely positive that what you're asking me hasn't already
         been answered in the text of the walkthrough. I hate it when I get
         stupid questions. I will more than likely answer them with extreme
         indifference or a small degree of rudeness. It has happened, and
         those at the brunt of my written attacks have been none too happy
         with my tone. They shouldn't be - I wasn't trying to be anything but
         rude. Since you now know what you'll get if you are careless in
         sending your e-mail, I expect relevant, intelligent, thought-out
         queries to come my way. You have been warned.
           If you happen to send me something that I may have carelessly
         excluded from this or any of my walkthroughs, tell me. Before
         updating, I'll confirm what you've told me to see if it works out,
         and if it does, you will be rightly credited for your input.

** That should be all for now, so enjoy busting your brain with ... er,
   I mean, _playing_ Lemmings!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                HOW TO PLAY
                                ===========
Even upon first glance, Lemmings doesn't appear to be a difficult game to 
learn. The first thing we will do to get you into the Lemmings groove is 
familiarize you with all the game's screens. These include the title screen, 
the screen you see just before entering a level, and the actual field of 
play. Listed below are those screens and Reasonable Facsimiles of them, in 
the order I just ran them off in.


     1. The Title Screen

         F1-----------o  F2-----------o  F3-----------o  o-------------o
         |            |  |            |  |            |  | (up)        |
         |  1-Player  |  |    New     |  |            |  |        FUN  |
         |            |  |   Level    |  |            |  | (down)o-----|
         o------------o  o------------o  o------------o  o-------------o

                         ESC----------o  F4-----------o
                         |            |  |pictures of |
                         |    Exit    |  | methods of |
                         |    DOS     |  |  control   |
                         o------------o  o------------o

     -> 1-Player is simply the PC version's way of saying this is how to
        start the game. There is no 2-player mode in Lemmings (although that
        would be VERY interesting to see implemented). In the Macintosh
        version, this button says Let's Go! Press F1 to start on the first
        level (or the level you have entered a password for).

     -> New Level will not let you make new levels as you might think -
        though there is a utility that lets you do just that for Lemmings.
        This is where you enter passwords. Make sure you enter the ten-letter 
        code correctly or you won't be able to go to the level you were    
        after.

     -> I left the F3 box blank because that's usually how I see it. However,
        if you press F3, you will see that blank space, a musical note, and
        "FX" there. You can toggle between no music at all, music and sound
        effects, or just sound effects. There is no option for music only.

     -> Press Up and Down to choose the difficulty you want to play at. If
        you choose a difficulty rating without entering a password, you will
        start on level 1 of that set of levels.

     -> Press Esc to leave Lemmings when your brain is totally destroyed by
        the intense difficulty or when the real world beckons you.

     -> F4 will let you select and calibrate the control method of your
        choice. I recommend the mouse.


     2. The Vital Statistics Screen

           o------------------------------------------------------o
           |                                                      |
           |                       (map)                          |
           |                                                      |
           o------------------------------------------------------o

                           Number of Lemmings  ??

                           % To Be Saved       ??

                           Release Rate        ??

                           Time         ? Minutes

                           Rating              --

     -> The map gives you a small-scale model of the level, giving you the
        opportunity to soak it all in and see if you're ready for it.

     -> There can be anywhere from eighty whole Lemmings in a level to just
        one. This is the first number you see there.

     -> Out of however many Lemmings you are required to save, a certain
        percentage of them have to make it to a designated point intact. This
        percentage is given to you in the % To Be Saved blank. Often, it will
        be in the range of 10-100%.

     -> "Release rate" is a term for how fast the Lemmings will fall out of
        the hatch at the beginning of the level. The number will always be in
        the range of 1 to 99. 1 is the absolute slowest setting - about one
        Lemming every two-and-a-half seconds. At 99, they will flood out
        uncontrollably. This is a setting best used to empty the remaining
        Lemmings out of the hatch once a path has been forged, but several
        levels start out at this speed, and you'll have to work with it,
        because the release rate cannot be lowered past the level's initial
        setting.

     -> Time amounts in this game are always listed in whole integers. The
        amount of time you have to beat a level may be anywhere from a paltry
        one minute to a whopping nine.

     -> Ratings are simply to tell you what difficulty a level has been
        deemed to be. The four difficulty settings in this game are Fun,
        Tricky, Taxing, and Mayhem.


     3. The Field of Play

        --------------------------------------------------------------





                          a portion of the gaming area




        --------------------------------------------------------------
       | + | - |CLI|FLO|BOM|BLK|BLD|BSH|MIN|DIG|   |   |              |
       |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |PSE|NUK|   mini-map   |
       |???|???|???|???|???|???|???|???|???|???|   |   |              |
        --------------------------------------------------------------

     -> The plus and minus signs represent the release rate. By clicking the 
        corresponding button, you can either increase or decrease it. Recall
        that you can't put it below the initial speed for that level, nor can
        you put it above 99.

     -> CLI stands for Climber. When applied to a Lemming, that Lemming will
        take on the ability to scale walls. This ability lasts until the end
        of the level.

     -> FLO stands for Floater. When a Lemming who is a floater falls from a
        large distance, it will deploy a parachute-like umbrella that allows
        them to fall any distance without splatting. Like the ability to
        climb, this lasts until the end of a level.

     SPECIAL NOTE: When a Lemming has both the ability to climb and float, it
     will be labeled an Athlete by the game. I use this term as well, so it
     would be a good idea for you to learn it as well. An Athlete is just a
     Lemming that is both a climber and a floater.

     -> BOM stands for Bomber. Any Lemming that is made a bomber immediately
        affects a five-second fuse. Although usually applied to blockers,
        situations do arise where you will have to make walkers into bombers
        as well. At the end of the five-second fuse, the Lemming blows up.
        Generally, you should try to use as few that you are given as you 
        can. Lemmings can't bomb through steel under normal circumstances.

     -> BLK stands for Blocker. Any Lemming that is made a blocker is frozen
        in place semi-permanently (special situations sometimes make blockers
        into walkers). Any walker or other Lemming that runs into a blocker
        will turn around and go in the other direction. Blockers are not
        always available to you or cannot be used in the interest of saving
        enough Lemmings, so creative ways of encasing groups of Lemmings may
        sometimes have to be found.

     -> BLD stands for Builder. One builder can construct a 45-degree bridge
        comprised of twelve tiles. If you have sound effects on, you will
        hear a clicking when a builder is about to run out of tiles, in which
        case you need to listen should you have to keep building a bridge.
        I would consider builders the most common task assigned to Lemmings,
        so they play a very important role in getting Lemmings to the exit.

     -> BSH stands for Basher. Bashers punch through walls in a horizontal
        line until they get to the end of the wall. The other Lemmings can
        then walk through the narrow tunnel that the basher makes. Lemmings
        can't bash through steel under normal circumstances.

     -> MIN stands for Miner (not the under-18 kind - like a coal miner).
        With pick-ax in hand, a Lemming will mine a diagonal tunnel downward 
        in the direction it was facing when you clicked on it. Lemmings can't
        mine through steel under normal circumstances.

     -> DIG stands for ... well, Digger. Any Lemming turned into a digger
        immediately takes to digging a tunnel straight down through the
        terrain below it. Lemmings can't dig through steel under normal
        circumstances.

     -> PSE stands for Pause, which in this game has an icon that looks like
        a tiny set of paws. (Get the joke? Yeah, I know, it's bad.)

     -> NUK stands for Nuke. This is to be used in situations when no more
        Lemmings can possibly be saved or when you feel like looking at a
        thoroughly amusing pyrotechnic displays on days other than the Fourth
        of July. When you double-click this button or press F12, all the
        Lemmings onscreen become bombers with five-second fuses above their
        heads. Lemmings will also cease coming out of the hatch if they are
        still in the process of doing so. After five seconds, every single
        Lemming will blow up in an impressive fireworks display, and you will
        be sent to the accountability screen, which tells you how many were
        saved and accounted for.

     SPECIAL NOTE: The question marks in the field-of-play model represent 
     the number values that are in those boxes while you are playing.

Now that you know what everything on all those initially befuddling screens 
is all about, it's safe to introduce you to the basic concept of Lemmings. 
You are given a set amount of Lemmings per level. Out of those many or few 
Lemmings, you must save a certain percentage of them. If you're not sure how 
many Lemmings encompass the percentage provided, convert the percentage to be 
saved to a decimal number (.xx) and multiply the total number of Lemmings by 
the decimal number you got.

As you've seen, you have several tools that will help you get the Lemmings to 
the exit, because they can't do it on their own. Were they left up to natural 
selection, every one of those Lemmings would mindlessly walk off ledges and 
into bottomless pits, water, acid, lava, and all the other environmental 
hazards interspersed throughout the game's 120 levels. You are their savior, 
their divine intervention. By giving them things to do that are productive 
and will lead them to the paradise behind the exit, you are like a god to 
them. You won't really get a reward or anything for beating the game, aside 
from the inner satisfaction of having beaten all 120 levels.

That is basically all you have to do. Of course, the game isn't always 
straight-up building, bashing, and bombing. If that were the case, it'd be 
way too easy. You will have to find creative ways to use what is given to 
you. Most tools have more uses than what is already obvious. I am the only 
person I know who has beaten this game. Hopefully, my friends and relatives 
who before were totally stumped should now gain all the knowledge they need 
to take on this game - and you should too, I hope.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        HELPFUL TIPS AND TECHNIQUES
                        ===========================
In Lemmings, there is no affair that can be taken (1) lightly or (2) slowly. 
Most levels will require you to be focusing on multiple facets of gameplay at 
once. No amount of mousework can prepare you for some of what is ahead. If 
you're confused and can't figure out for the life of you why the solution to 
a level just flat-out is not working, this section contains some pointers and 
ways to get yourself out of the rut of slowness and do things fast. Nimble 
fingers are always a plus when doing some of these. Also, this section 
doesn't include stuff like using two blockers to hold in a bunch of Lemmings. 
Any fool could figure that out.

-----------
1. Hot Keys
-----------
"Hot keys" is computer slang for keyboard shortcuts that are more efficient 
than doing things with the mouse. In Lemmings, hot keys are not just more 
efficient: they're practically a hallelujah chorus in their own right. With 
hot keys, you can assign jobs faster and select tasks or raise and lower 
release rate while the game is paused - something you can't do with the 
mouse. Here is a listing of what each hot key instantly jumps to:

  F1 - lower release rate (hold down to do it faster)
  F2 - raise release rate
  F3 - climbers
  F4 - floaters
  F5 - bombers
  F6 - blockers
  F7 - builders
  F8 - bashers
  F9 - miners
  F10 - diggers
  F11 - pause the game
  F12 - Armageddon (nuke)

--------------------------
2. Surveying the Landscape
--------------------------
Before each level starts, pause the game and get a good long look at the 
terrain. During this time, you can see how much of each tool you've been 
given, find traps you might need to be on the lookout for, formulate 
strategies, etc. This is always a great thing to do before levels that seem 
reasonably difficult.

----------------------------------------
3. Milking Bridges For All They're Worth
----------------------------------------
Wait for a builder to run out of tiles, then let him walk a little bit before 
continuing the bridge (but not enough to fall off the bridge). You will get 
quite a bit more length out of your bridges this way, though they won't be as 
tall as perfectly shaped bridges.

-----------------------------------------------
4. The Ground Under Me Is Gone! I'm A Free Man!
-----------------------------------------------
Mine or bash the ground under a blocker to make it a walker again. This keeps 
you from having to use bombers in situations where you have to save more than 
that will allow.

-----------------------
5. Zigzagging Staircase
-----------------------
Building zigzagging staircases is the most efficient way to get out of deep 
holes when you don't have a decent amount of climbers or other tasks 
pertaining to your situation.

--------------------
6. Breaking the Fall
--------------------
When you don't have floaters available to you, you can dig at the edge of 
certain ledges to take a good chunk out of the falling distance, which might 
otherwise cause a lot of Lemmings to go KER-SPLAT!

----------------
7. Holding Cells
----------------
This is one of the special techniques that you will use most often throughout 
the course of the game. To create a holding cell, have one Lemming start 
digging a hole. When that hole is deep enough that the digger won't build out 
of it, have him build to cut the hole off at a certain point. This will hold 
as many Lemmings as are in the level until a zigzagging staircase is built to 
help them all escape. The only problem with this is that you have to build 
the zigzagging staircase in the right direction or they might all go off on 
the wrong path and die!
  Another way to make a holding cell is to have two miners mine in opposite 
directions and have each one build when the tunnels are deep enough.

--------------------------
8. Turning Around On Steel
--------------------------
If you need someone to turn the other way while walking on steel, have him 
build one or two tiles, then mine to cut off the bridge. The builder/miner 
will make a dent in the steel and start walking off in the other direction.

--------------------
9. Steel Digging 101
--------------------
In the How to Play section, I noted for each type of digging Lemming that 
they cannot dig through steel under normal circumstances. This refers to 
trying to dig/bash/mine through a solid chunk of steel. If you dig/bash/mine 
through steel and another destructible surface at the same time, you will go 
through the steel portion of the tunnel without problems. There are some 
levels where it is necessary to employ the "cheating" tactic of partially 
going through steel.

---------------
10. Bridge Wall
---------------
You shouldn't have to do this very often, but if you are at a loss for 
blockers and there is absolutely no way to hold in a restless bunch of 
Lemmings - you can't make a holding cell due to thin ground and nothing else 
will work - you can form a bridge wall. A barrier consisting of 10-13 bridges 
has a thick enough base that Lemmings are not able to pass through the foot 
of the stairs as they can with a single bridge. This is a rarely used tactic, 
but one that is necessary to the completion of at least one level in the 
game.

--------------------
11. Over The Blocker
--------------------
In cases where bombing a blocker would cause a gap in the floor that would 
kill Lemmings, you might have to build a zigzagging bridge over some 
blockers. Make sure they come out in the direction you intend for them to or 
many could die needlessly. Builders will automatically turn around if they 
run into a blocker while doing their job.

---------------------
12. Walking Time Bomb
---------------------
Sometimes you will have to make Lemmings bombers as they are walking or doing 
something else when you don't possess any blockers. Some levels require this 
just to give you a hard time. In levels where you have to do this, I will 
clearly indicate the exact point(s) where you should start the timer on a 
walker.

------------------------------------------------------------
13. Today, The Digger Will Be Playing The Part Of The Basher
------------------------------------------------------------
If no bashers are in your inventory, simply make a Lemming into a climber, 
and when they get to the top of a surface, have them dig to create an 
opening. This only works on thin surfaces that are not cut off by a ceiling.

------------------------
14. Pass-Through Blocker
------------------------
If you turn a Lemming into a blocker as soon as he hits the ground below the 
level's starting point, the other Lemmings will at first pass through him and 
continue on to the right, but if for some reason they happen to cross back to 
that blocker, they will turn around when they hit him. You'll use this one A 
LOT.

-------------------------------
15. Gimme A Few Seconds, Please
-------------------------------
If you pause before the hatch opens up, you can squeeze a few more seconds 
out of a level. Opening the hatch takes nearly four seconds, so this pause is 
especially important in those 1-minute levels where every second counts.

These techniques and more will be a great deal of help to you in your journey 
as the Lemmings Savior. If you have intuition and a bit of hindsight, that 
will help you all the more in your quest. When combined with the multitasking 
wonders and general tips seen here, there's no reason you won't be able to 
tackle most levels in Lemmings.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             APPENDIX OF TRAPS
                             =================
Have your Lemmings been consistently snared in the same trap over and over 
again, but you can't figure out what on God's green earth the thing that 
they're getting crushed, folded, squished, throttled, or otherwise just 
mutilated by in general might be? That's what this section is here for. 
You'll see all the traps in the game in this section, along with some that 
aren't in any level in the game but are actual parts in the tile sets. Traps 
will be categorized by the tile set they match up with. There is also a 
section for general traps that can be found anywhere.

-----------------------------
General Environmental Hazards
-----------------------------

BOTTOMLESS PITS
These are in every level in the game, though you won't be able to get to most 
of them in some levels. Any time you see black along the bottom of the 
screen, that is where the abyss lies. Lemmings that wander into these endless 
holes are gone forever.

HARMFUL LIQUIDS
Lemmings can't swim (in this game, anyway), so if they fall in any sort of 
liquid, they'll flail their limbs helplessly for a second and then will find 
themselves mired in whatever they've fallen into. Liquids can most often be 
passed by building bridges over them, though in some cases there are other 
ways around. The liquids differ according to their location, and are 
classified in the following chart.

          LOCATION | LIQUID TYPE
     --------------+-----------------
       underground | fresh water
      gold pillars | fresh water
           pastels | acid
              hell | lava
     crystal caves | crystal water

None of the extended tile sets (as seen in 22 Fun, 14 Tricky, 15 Taxing, and 
22 Mayhem) have water or any other sort of liquid in them.

WALLS WITH ARROWS
This is not a trap, per se, but merits a listing in this section because it 
can hamper your progress if you are ill-prepared for it. Arrows indicate that 
you can only dig through a wall in the direction shown. Most often, they will 
be pointing against you, which requires you to go over them (they are hardly 
ever attached to ceilings) and bash or mine through from the other side. 
Again, they're not a trap - just a major inconvenience.

-----------------
Underground Traps
-----------------

STEEL TRAP
Used here not for killing bears, foxes, or other wildlife, but Lemmings. Go 
under them by mining or over them with one builder.

10-TON WEIGHT
If a Lemming steps on the button below one of these things, it's splat time 
for him. You can build over the button if you want.

RETRACTABLE BOULDER
This is a sly trap. There's no button that activates it, so if you're under 
it, it will crush you, even if you try to build over it. In that case, the 
only way to elude this trap is to mine under it, but not so far that escape 
is really hard or impossible, and then bash a straight tunnel out. It's only 
in one level in Lemmings, but you have to watch out for it because it blends 
in so well with the landscape that you may lose ten or more Lemmings before 
you realize what's happened. Being under it also results in one of the 
goriest deaths in the game.

-----------------
Gold Pillar Traps
-----------------

ROPE SNARE
Just don't get a Lemming's foot caught in this. The trip around it can be 
rough if they meet with it. They are often out of the way beyond an exit or 
in an otherwise inaccessible area, so you won't have to deal with them most 
of the time - they seem to have been put in most levels as mere scenery.

NEEDLES
Although the needles are only in one level (like most traps), there are two 
sets of them in that level, and a deadly trap this is. You usually won't get 
hurt if you run into them near the very bottom or top, so just basically 
avoid the very middle. They will shoot out real fast and send a Lemming to 
who-knows-where. Also, they work swiftly and with alarming accuracy, so don't 
let too many Lemmings meet the needles.

------------
Pastel Traps
------------

MASHERS
Equivalent to the underground area's retractable boulder, but these have a 
button to activate them, so they can be built over easily. If a line of, say, 
twenty Lemmings passes over a masher button, seven or eight will die. That's 
roughly 40% of the line, so stay away from mashers if you can.

SHREDDERS
Shredders spin so freely with the wind, but they're not to be toyed with. 
Every inch of muscle fiber, bone, and tissue in a Lemming's body will be 
strewn about if they get too close to one of these. Often, a blocker will be 
able to ward off one of these, but not always. One of the game's hardest 
levels involves these shredders, and you'll know which one it is when I get 
to it.

----------
Hell Traps
----------

FIRE BLOWERS
There is no way to bypass one of these - it's all or nothing. In other words, 
find a way around one. The fire will kill every Lemming in a line that passes 
through it, even at the highest release rate. Lemmings will also suffer if 
they touch a fire blower directly at the source. Keep all this in mind as you 
come around them.

FIRE BOXES
Coals inside the boxes keep the flames ablaze. Lemmings can step right in 
them without the aid of a bridge, so use blockers or another form of defense 
against them. Fortunately, they're usually out of the way, so you won't have 
to deal directly with them very often.

------------------
Crystal Cave Traps
------------------

SLICER
Meeting one of these things means a Lemmings will get cut up into four neat 
portions. I don't recall this one being in any level in the game.

DEMOLECULARIZER
It looks like two balls on steel rods - one under the Lemming, the other 
above it. If you step between them, your molecules will torn apart in a 
terrible mess. There's only one level where you'll see this thing, and it is 
very easy to go around in that level.

LEMMING GHOSTBUSTER TRAP
That's the best I can describe this thing as. When a Lemming steps on the 
Lemming Ghostbuster Trap, they'll get sucked down into it, molecule for 
molecule. Although, like the demolecuarizer, it's only located in one level, 
its placement will mean the difference between whether or not you are able to 
finish the level - MWAHAHAHAHAHA! Oh my, it's hot in here.

There are no traps to be found in the extended tile sets (the four levels 
with different backgrounds than the others).

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                WALKTHROUGH
                                ===========


                        T H E   F U N   L E V E L S

-----------------------
Level 1   Just dig!
10 Lemmings (10% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ Mostly, these first seven or eight levels are meant as tutorial exercises,
  so in all honesty, you shouldn't really need help with them. But, if you're
  just that desperate and you still can't figure out what's going on, AFTER
  ALL THE EXPLAINING I DID ... well, okay.
+ Have one Lemming dig a hole - anywhere you want. He will eventually make
  his way to the bottom and all the other Lemmings will follow the trail and
  go to the exit. You only need to use one digger (you're given ten) to
  complete the level. After one has reached the exit (10% of ten Lemmings is
  one), you can let the rest follow suit or nuke them all.

----------------------------------------
Level 2   Only floaters can survive this
10 Lemmings (10% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------------------------
+ As you can see, the distance they will fall from that last column is too
  much for the Lemmings to bear. Make at least one a floater, because that's
  all you need to save. Once one has made it to the exit, you can do what you
  please with the others.

----------------------------------
Level 3   Tailor-made for blockers
50 Lemmings (10% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------------------
+ There are several points in this level where the Lemmings could easily fall
  to their deaths. You need to place blockers at the points where Lemmings
  could potentially meet their graves. A novice will probably use the maximum
  five blockers needed for the job; experts will probably only need three.

-------------------------------------
Level 4   Now use miners and climbers
10 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
-------------------------------------
+ With the one miner you are given, make him tunnel out of his prison, so to
  speak.
+ Assign a climber to every Lemming and watch as they scale the wall to the
  exit. Remember to save every Lemming - no nukes this time or you'll have to
  do it again.

------------------------------------
Level 5   You need bashers this time
50 Lemmings (10% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
------------------------------------
+ Bash through the pole in front of you and the large cavern wall behind
  that.
+ If you bash at the base of the pyramid fence each time, you'll only have to
  use one basher. (Bashing in the middle of fences is generally not a good
  idea unless I say it is.)

-----------------------------------------
Level 6   A task for blockers and bombers
50 Lemmings (20% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------------------------
+ Since they all walk around the same general area in the beginning without
  heading off anywhere else, you can just bomb the first one that comes out
  without making him a blocker.
+ If you're not accustomed to the Walking Time Bomb trick, put a blocker as
  close to the thin pole guarding the exit as you can and then blow him to
  bits. If you can pull it off correctly, it just makes for good practice for
  one of the Tricky levels...

-------------------------------------
Level 7   Builders will help you here
50 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-------------------------------------
+ Build up to the raised platform ahead of you.
+ Build over the pit located in front of the exit. It doesn't matter if a few
  Lemmings get caught in there.

----------------------------------------
Level 8   Not as complicated as it looks
80 Lemmings (95% saved)
RR 88   5 minutes
----------------------------------------
+ Put a blocker near the opening hatch to guide the Lemmings to the exit
  behind it.

--------------------------------------
Level 9   As long as you try your best
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
--------------------------------------
+ As soon as the first Lemming hits the ground, turn him into a blocker. The
  others will initially pass through him and go to the right, but once they
  come back around, the blocker will start to do his job. This is a useful
  technique that you need to remember.
+ Bash through the pillar once you're safe from the shredders.

-------------------------------------
Level 10   Smile if you love Lemmings
20 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-------------------------------------
+ Make the first one a blocker so that all other Lemmings are diverted to the
  left.
+ Make the rest floaters. You can nuke after you've saved the minimum amount
  if you want.

----------------------------------------
Level 11   Keep your hair on Mr. Lemming
50 Lemmings (83% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------------------------
+ Assign both a climber and a floater to the first two Lemmings out of the
  hatch. From here on out, this combination of climber and floater will be
  referred to as Athlete (the game's terminology, not mine).
+ When the first one is on the ground after surmounting the towering wall and 
  is approaching the exit, make him a blocker.
+ Notice the arrows pointing left on the towering wall. This means you can
  only bash through them in that direction. Knowing that, you know that it's
  the other athlete's job to bash through that wall. Make him do just that.
+ Blow up the blocker so the other Lemmings can make it to the exit once the
  athlete bashes through.

-----------------------
Level 12   Patience
80 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ Use the pass-through blocker technique at the beginning so that your flood
  of Lemmings doesn't come back and spill off the edge into oblivion.
+ Bash through the wall.
+ When they fall into the alcove, use some builders to get yourself out of
  there.

---------------------------
Level 13   We all fall down
20 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 01   3 minutes
---------------------------
+ This is the first level where the slight increase in splat distance between 
  the floppy disk version and the CD version will apply. If you are playing
  the CD version, the Lemmings will not splat if they walk off the edge of
  the platform. If you are playing the floppy disk version, they will. The CD
  version makes the other variations of this level extremely easy as well,
  but if you have the dumb old floppy disk, use the step below to beat this
  one.
+ Have every Lemming dig through the ledge. Speed the release rate up to
  about 30 for now (raising it is absolutely necessary in later variations)
  so the action doesn't move so excruciatingly slow. When every Lemming is at
  the bottom and has made it to the exit, you've won. Not one Lemming can
  slip through the cracks, or you'll have to start all over. This can be a
  real pain in the butt with this version of the game, especially later on in
  the harder difficulties.

-------------------------------
Level 14   Origins and Lemmings
80 Lemmings (75% saved)
RR 20   6 minutes
-------------------------------
+ Either bash or mine through the first column in your way.
+ When you fall into the next area, you'll see a horizontal pillar stretching
  out to the right between the two columns. You must build a bridge to that
  general area so that when you bash through, your Lemmings don't end up
  falling in the water.
+ When the bridge secures safe passage to the other side, bash through the
  horizontal pillar.
+ Repeat the previous two steps once more to make it to the exit.

------------------------------------------
Level 15   Don't let your eyes deceive you
80 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 40   8 minutes
------------------------------------------
+ Don't use any blockers until you have bashed through the three large
  columns in this level.
+ When you have completed the bashing, make the second Lemming in line a
  blocker. This will let one of them pass to forge a path for the others once
  the blocker is eliminated.
+ Build over the large pit. It should take roughly four to six bridges to do 
  this, depending on where you start building from.
+ Build over the broken stairwell so that the Lemmings don't fall in and
  catch themselves in the rope snare.
+ When that first Lemming has reached the exit, blow up the blocker and allow
  the others to follow the trail.

--------------------------------------
Level 16   Don't do anything too hasty
80 Lemmings (62% saved)
RR 1    8 minutes
--------------------------------------
+ Let one Lemming pass and make two others blockers in order to enclose the
  others in a small space.
+ It will take the builder seven or eight bridges to make it to the top.
+ Once he's made sure it's safe, the others can go to "heaven," as it were.

---------------------------------
Level 17   Easy when you know how
50 Lemmings (40% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
---------------------------------
+ There is one sneaky little detail that this level doesn't bother to reveal:
  along the bottom row are four mashers that remain hidden from sight. That's
  what the big chunk of terrain is there for - to hide those stupid things!
  Therefore, you must find a way around them. Not to worry, here it is.
+ Put a blocker near the far left hatch so that no one goes out into masher
  territory.
+ Bash through all the column bases (except for the one on the far right) to
  get the Lemmings in one big group.
+ Exhaust your supply of floaters (yes, all 20).
+ Bash through the column base on the far right to release everybody. The
  floaters should survive and the walkers should go ker-splat. With twenty
  floaters about, you should save the minimum requirement of 40% and no more.
  There is, however, a special case (see below).

SPECIAL CASE! If you are blessed with possession of the CD version, there is
an interesting quirk in the programming that I don't understand but I love it 
anyway. If you bash through the last column with a walker, everything will 
occur as normal and your walkers will die and your floaters will live. If, 
however, you bash through the last column using a floater, the floaters AND 
walkers will survive! Ha ha! Tell me, how crazy is that? Oh! Oh! I need to 
stop and breathe.

-------------------------------
Level 18   Let's block and blow
70 Lemmings (71% saved)
RR 80   5 minutes
-------------------------------
+ Obviously, you don't want to use a bomber at a point where Lemmings will
  fall into the fire boxes, so use blockers and bomb them in safe places. Do
  this until you reach the bottom of the level and they can walk to safety.

----------------------------------------
Level 19   Take good care of my Lemmings
80 Lemmings (70% saved)
RR 20   8 minutes
----------------------------------------
+ Let one go ahead while encasing the others within the confines of two able-
  bodied blockers.
+ Start building to the exit at the middle of the last hill.
+ Once the exit is accessible, release the others.

-----------------------------------
Level 20   We are now at LEMCON ONE
50 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 10   5 minutes
-----------------------------------
+ Build over the first pit. Losing a few doesn't matter right now.
+ When the bridge is complete, put a pass-through blocker in place. Be
  careful where you put him though. If he's on the edge of a step, Lemmings
  can pass through him on the way back as well. Plant him firmly on a step.
+ Bash through the series of seven pillars.
+ Build to the exit and increase the release rate to finish the level faster.

---------------------------
Level 21   You Live and Lem
80 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 50   8 minutes
---------------------------
+ Bash through the rock until you get to the steel trap.
+ Build a bridge over it.
+ Let them pass to the exit.

-----------------------------
Level 22   A Beast of a level
80 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------------
+ A Beast of a level? It must be a pretty tame beast. In any case, put a</pre><pre id="faqspan-2">
  pass-through blocker at the beginning of the level.
+ Bash through the trees until you come to the end of the line.
+ Build a zigzagging staircase to the top.
+ Bash through the "home" tree to make the Lemmings home free. (That rhymes!)

-----------------------------------------
Level 23   I've lost that Lemming feeling
80 Lemmings (25% saved)
RR 50   8 minutes
-----------------------------------------
+ First things first: place a blocker so that no one wanders into the lava.
+ Make someone bash through the wall to the left.
+ Put a blocker behind him so that the basher can bash in peace. (Also,
  ignore the blood writings that say EXIT X - there are no exits there.)
+ Once through the large wall, which constitutes the bulk of the work, build
  over the pit. You'll have to do this quickly, so have the builder task
  ready to click on the basher as soon as he finishes.
+ Release the others when either exit (preferably the bottom one) becomes 
  available.

-------------------------------
Level 24   Konbanwa Lemming san
30 Lemmings (66% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
-------------------------------
+ Where there's a ledge below the one your Lemmings start on, use a miner.
+ Use on the ledge you fall onto as well.
+ Use enough diggers above the platform that the exit is on so that less than
  ten Lemmings get by (20 = 66%). One digger probably won't help a whole lot.

---------------------------------------
Level 25   Lemmings Lemmings everywhere
80 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
---------------------------------------
+ Let them walk up to the very top of the fence, then bash through the thin
  wall at the end of the fence.
+ Dig however you have to get to the bottom of the web where the exit is. Use
  blockers if necessary.

----------------------------------
Level 26   Nightmare on Lem Street
2 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 30   5 minutes
----------------------------------
+ Make both Lemmings build to the platform across from where they start.
+ Do the same thing again, this time building to the wall in front of the
  exit.
+ When it is certain that neither of them will fall, bash through to the
  exit.

-------------------------------------
Level 27   Let's be careful out there
50 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
-------------------------------------
+ Since it's too far of a fall to go straight down to the exit, put a blocker
  in place so no one goes down there. You'll have to go all the way around.
+ Build over the tiny pit there to the left.
+ Put a blocker at the top of the steps to the far left.
+ When Lemmings begin turning around, start building to the ledge to the
  right.
+ Make someone a blocker once they get to the other side to keep Lemmings
  from taking an acid bath.
+ Build over the narrow pit to the exit.

---------------------------------
Level 28   If only they could fly
80 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 80   5 minutes
---------------------------------
+ Dig through the four platforms stacked on top of each other to start.
+ Once at the bottom, make a blocker guard the lava.
+ Watch as the Lemmings proceed left. You want one to start building up to
  the zigzagging set of bricks that leads to the exit.
+ Put a blocker in front of the other lava pit so everybody is closed in.
+ Place a blocker at the top of the brick that the builder ascended to.
+ Continue this alternation between builders and blockers until you come to
  the exit.

-------------------------------
Level 29   worra lorra Lemmings
80 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 90   8 minutes
-------------------------------
+ First off, put a blocker in the appropriate place.
+ Bash through to the left until the Lemmings fall into the space created by
  the broken staircase.
+ When one Lemming turns around after hitting the brick to the right, build
  your way out.
+ Build from the bottom half of the stairs to the pyramid above.
+ Bash through that pyramid.
+ Make a winding staircase up to the exit.

--------------------------------
Level 30   Lock up your Lemmings
60 Lemmings (66% saved)
RR 10   5 minutes
--------------------------------
+ All you have to do here is bash through the wall when a Lemmings falls in
  one of the narrow pits. If you happen to bash the wrong way, secure the
  mistake with a blocker.
+ That's all for the Fun levels!


                       T H E   T R I C K Y   L E V E L S

----------------------------------
Level 1   This should be a doddle!
80 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 50   4 minutes
----------------------------------
+ Man, there were Fun levels that were harder than this. But anyway ... start
  off by letting one go ahead and using ONE blocker to leave the rest at bay.
  (The left wall will hold them in sufficiently, so a second blocker is
  negligible.)
+ Build over the small pit in the center.
+ Bash through the rock in your way.
+ Let the others go when the way is clear.

--------------------------
Level 2   We all fall down
40 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 1    3 minutes
--------------------------
+ It's this level again, except now you have twice as many Lemmings to mess
  with. If you're on CD mode, max out the release rate and sit back while the
  game does the rest. If you play on the floppy disk, raise it to 50 and work
  twice as hard as last time to tuck those Lemmings safely away.

---------------------------------
Level 3   A ladder would be handy
80 Lemmings (50% saved)
RR 50   6 minutes
---------------------------------
+ While one goes ahead to forge the trail, enclose the others within two
  blockers.
+ When he gets somewhat near the edge of the cliff, have him dig and then
  mine so the others don't fall too far and splat.
+ Start building a long bridge up in the middle of the first half of the 
  bridge that the Lemming lands on. You should make it to the top after a few
  minutes of building.
+ When the Lemmings become upwardly mobile, let them all go to the exit.

---------------------------------------
Level 4   Here's one I prepared earlier
80 Lemmings (20% saved)
RR 55   8 minutes
---------------------------------------
+ Let all the Lemmings walk over the rock, and make three of them climbers.
+ When the three of them are over the rock with the left-pointing arrows, let
  the first one go on and build his way to the exit. (He can walk over that
  little gray lump at the end of the steel ledge.)
+ Make the second one a blocker so the third climber goes back and can bash
  through the rock. He will climb over the large mountain to the left and
  will presumably die, but there's more than enough room for casualties in
  this level.
+ When the builder has successfully made it to the exit, blow up the blocker
  so that the rest follow suit.

---------------------------------------
Level 5   Careless clicking costs lives
80 Lemmings (20% saved)
RR 20   5 minutes
---------------------------------------
+ Have one guy block while another one goes on ahead to make a way for the
  others as usual.
+ Bash through the "strings" or the spheres that "hang" from them to get to
  the other side.
+ Build at the end of the fence to the crystal clump, then from the crystal
  clump to the exit.
+ Release the others.

----------------------
Level 6   Lemmingology
5 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------
NOTE: If you are playing the floppy disk version, make sure to make your
      Lemmings floaters. If you have the CD, this is not necessary.

+ Make one Lemming into a climber. Make sure he's walking to the right or
  it'll take a little bit of building to turn him around.
+ Have him build his way to the exit. You'll have to make him a floater if
  you're playing off the floppy disk because of that long fall.
+ After a path is forged, make the other four climbers.

--------------------------------------
Level 7   Been there, seen it, done it
75 Lemmings (73% saved)
RR 20   5 minutes
--------------------------------------
+ Assign the role of blocker to the first Lemming to fall out of the hatch.
+ Make the next one build to the left. Continue to make him build up to each
  pillar all the way up to the last one.
+ Make sure two blockers keep the others in while he does this.
+ At the highest pillar, dig down a fair distance.
+ Bash or mine to the left to get out of the pillar.
+ Let the others come around.

------------------------------------
Level 8   Lemming sanctuary in sight
80 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 40   8 minutes
------------------------------------
+ Build a bridge to the left over the small pit. It doesn't matter if a few
  Lemmings get by.
+ Put a blocker at the bottom of that bridge.
+ Build up to each successive floor. It is important to note that there are
  tiny gaps at the end of each ledge - gaps that those Lemmings can fit
  through. If a gap was one pixel wide, a Lemming could fit through. Remember
  to build over these tiny holes as you make your way up. Other than that,
  you should blow through this one easily.

----------------------------------
Level 9   They just keep on coming
75 Lemmings (93% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------------------
NOTE: Since the level splits in two directions from the get-go, there are two
      solutions listed here. The first solution is written for the left path,
      and the second is for the right path.

SOLUTION 1
+ Put a blocker to the right of the hatch. Let one proceed left while another
  blocker keeps the rest in.
+ Build to the next steel ledge.
+ Build to the wall to the far left. If you run into it, mine through the
  bridge somewhere near that wall. You shouldn't splat if you mine there.
+ Bash through the right-pointing mound of dirt.
+ Build a bridge to the exit and let the others go.

SOLUTION 2
+ Put a pass-through blocker at the beginning. When one passes, make another
  blocker to hold the others in.
+ Let that one Lemming who got by go ahead and build to the right until he
  falls to the hill of dirt to the far right.
+ Dig through the middle of that dirt, then build to stop.
+ Mine to the left and build to get to the ledge.
+ Build to the cliff holding the exit.
+ Let the other Lemmings take the path the loner made.

--------------------------------------
Level 10   There's a lot of them about
80 Lemmings (92% saved)
RR 60   8 minutes
--------------------------------------
NOTE: There is a way to handle both sides of this level at the same time, and
      in fact later you will have to. If you need help for this level though,
      you're probably not ready for that kind of big business. This level
      solution is written with the novice in mind - ergo, we will tackle both
      sides separately.

+ You do, however, need to put sets of blockers on each side of the level.
  Pausing between side switches makes this easier.
+ On the left side, with one Lemming allowed to pass, you need to bash 
  through the wall in front of you.
+ Build to the exit.
+ Repeat for the right side.
+ Blow up the blockers that will allow the others to make the pilgrimage to
  the central exit.

--------------------------------
Level 11   Lemmings in the attic
50 Lemmings (84% saved)
RR 20   8 minutes
--------------------------------
+ Let one pass by as per the usual, then use a blocker to hold the rest in.
+ Build over the pit to the left.
+ Five bricks make up the ground the Lemmings start on. Build at the dividing
  line between the first and second ones from the left. You should make it to
  the thin wall that you can bash through.
+ Bash through the thin walls to the exit.
+ This last step is the most important about this level: DON'T BLOW UP THE
  BLOCKER! You will blow a hole in the floor that will make a pit if you do.
  This will mean the certain death of many a Lemming. Instead, build until
  you have made a bridge over him.

-------------------------
Level 12   Bitter Lemming
50 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 1    8 minutes
-------------------------
+ Since the fall is too far for the Lemmings at the beginning, make the first
  one out a floater. Keep the release rate at 1 for now.
+ Build zigzagging staircases until the Lemmings no longer splat.
+ Have the floater climb out of the narrow pit to the right.
+ Let him walk all the way to the edge of the plateau. Dig at that edge.
+ Build to the exit when you are quite a way down.
+ When the athlete reaches the exit, have the others build out of the narrow
  pit.

------------------------
Level 13   Lemming Drops
80 Lemmings (70% saved)
RR 1   8 minutes
------------------------
+ Assign a floater to the first Lemming. As soon as he hits the bottom
  stairs, make him build. You have to do it when he hits the ground or you'll
  most likely lose him. Also, as with the previous level, keep the release
  rate at 1.
+ While the floater builds, put blockers on the steel block below the
  entrance hatch.
+ Build a zigzag staircase up to the steel column.
+ Build to the next area.
+ There is a staircase leading up to two planks of wood, upon which the exit
  is located. Build part of the way to it, then let the floater walk up the
  staircase.
+ On the way back down, make a bridge that connects to the other one.
+ Build bridges until you have one that leads to the exit.
+ When there is a bridge available, release the others.

-----------------------
Level 14   MENACING !!
80 Lemmings (87% saved)
RR 50   6 minutes
-----------------------
+ Make a pass-through blocker at the beginning. Let one Lemming pass (this is
  getting terribly routine, I know) and put a blocker behind him to keep the
  others at bay.
+ Bash through the grotesque hand, the skull, and the snake going through his
  eyes.
+ Bash through the pile of bones.
+ Build a bridge over the large chasm and one up to the exit.
+ Release the others.

----------------------------------
Level 15   Ozone friendly Lemmings
10 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------------------
+ Bomb each Lemming as it comes out of the entry hatch and you should have a
  hole to the bottom of the level and the exit. The only hitch here is that
  you are provided with five bombers, but you must save 60% of the ten
  Lemmings in this level - six of them. If you use all five bombers, you will
  not save the minimum required percentage. Four bombers only - not five.

-----------------------
Level 16   Luvly Jubly
50 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 76   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ Mine into the ledge below you, but start bashing before the miner gets all 
  the way through. You should end up on the side with the triangular fences.
+ Start bombing at a point, then bomb every Lemming after that a little
  farther forward than the point before the previous one. This should make a
  path to the exit since you don't have bashers available to you. You may
  use the ten bombers given to you, but if you don't make it to the exit
  after using all ten, you must start over.

--------------------------
Level 17   Diet Lemmingaid
50 Lemmings (96% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
--------------------------
+ Bomb anywhere you want on the first ledge below the hatch.
+ Below the downward jutting part (that has the fire blower on its left side)
  is where you need to start the timer on the second bomber. Bomb in the
  middle of that jutting part. Use the dividing line in the bricks as a gauge
  of when to bomb.

-----------------------------------
Level 18   It's Lemmingentry Watson
10 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------------------
+ Have the first Lemming dig through the third pillar. As he digs down, make
  sure there is a thin part of pillar still on the right side.
+ One Lemming will walk out of the digger's hole - bestow the lone floater
  upon him.
+ When the digger has burrowed sufficiently down, bomb him.
+ A hole will appear in the pillar that the Lemmings can walk out of without
  splatting.

------------------------------------
Level 19   Postcard from Lemmingland
50 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
------------------------------------
+ Make the first Lemming out of the hatch an athlete.
+ When he climbs up to the first ledge, dig at the edge.
+ A little way down, build. Make sure the athlete runs into the ledge so that
  he turns around. This is integral to completing the level.
+ Mine to the left, then bash when you're on the same level as the other
  Lemmings.
+ The other Lemmings can then walk to the exit. Make sure to let the athlete
  go to the exit as you need to save all the Lemmings to complete the level.

-------------------------------------
Level 20   One way digging to freedom
80 Lemmings (95% saved)
RR 60   4 minutes
-------------------------------------
+ This level should have been put in Fun. This is just way too easy. To
  start, put a pass-through blocker at the beginning.
+ Bash through the first wall in your way.
+ Make two Lemmings athletes.
+ The first one should be a blocker on the other side and the second should
  bash through the wall pointing left (as the case was in "Keep your hair on
  Mr. Lemming").
+ Make sure, however, that you put the blocker on one of the thick platforms.
  If you put him on one of the thinner bricks, you'll blow a hole through and
  all the Lemmings will meet the bottomless pit. If you bomb in the right
  place, your victory is sealed.

-------------------------------
Level 21   All the 6's ........
66 Lemmings (66% saved)
RR 66   6 minutes
-------------------------------
+ This is a straightforward level made ridiculously simple by the fact that
  you get 66 of every tool. Not only that, but the level is just easy to
  begin with. Have one guy bash through the first 6 and put a blocker behind
  him.
+ Build over to the second 6.
+ Bash through it twice and build to the third 6.
+ Bash through the third 6 and let the others go.

--------------------------------------
Level 22   Turn around young lemmings!
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 88   5 minutes
--------------------------------------
+ Bomb the first two Lemmings out of the hatch.
+ Build to the left if necessary to get them out of the fabricated hole.

---------------------------------
Level 23   From The Boundary Line
80 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
---------------------------------
+ Bash through the wall using the first Lemming that gets to it.
+ While he's bashing, make him a climber.
+ When the climber is done bashing, you must have at least 49 Lemmings left
  over. If you don't, you can't win, because 48 is 60% of 80, and that's what
  you need to beat the level. If you have 49 when the climber is finished
  bashing, go ahead. If you don't, start over. I say 49 because with the way
  you're supposed to beat this level, the climber will have to die. If he's
  the 48th one and he dies, you're down to 47, and that won't cut the
  mustard. 
+ When the climber scales the wall and is headed for the exit, dig a small
  bit before the exit.
+ Build to make him turn around. Make sure that when you build, the other
  non-climber Lemmings will be able to walk up to the exit.
+ Mine to the left so that the other Lemmings can walk up through the
  diagonal tunnel and watch as at least 48 of them head for the exit.

-------------------------
Level 24   Tightrope City
80 Lemmings (93% saved)
RR 85   2 minutes
-------------------------
+ Let one Lemming trudge forward while you encase the others in a two-blocker
  barricade. Put the blockers pretty close together.
+ When the one you let go along nears the exit, build up to it. It will take
  two bridges.
+ You'll have to build over the blockers to get the others to safety. Make 
  sure the bridge comes out in the right direction or all your escapades will
  be for naught. Naught, I say!

-----------------------
Level 25   Cascade
80 Lemmings (12% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ You can only save as many Lemmings as there are floaters in your inventory.
  Exhaust your floater supply. Try to space them out as evenly as possible.
+ Make the first one dig through the pillar it comes to.
+ Build to make him stop. Don't make the hole too deep - you will need to
  construct a zigzagging staircase to make it out.
+ Make one floater an athlete so that he climbs out of the hole to the right.
+ Build to the long column you see. When he gets to it, have him bash so that
  he doesn't turn around. If he turns around, he'll eventually die.
+ As soon as the column is bashed through, make a bridge to the exit.
+ Build out of the hole you dug awhile back. Make sure you come out in the
  right direction or you'll have to start all over.

--------------------------------
Level 26   I have a cunning plan
80 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 99   5 minutes
--------------------------------
+ Although you are given blockers for this level, you won't be able to use
  them since you have to save all the Lemmings here. What you have to do is
  build yourself a Bridge Wall. (See Helpful Tips and Techniques.) If a
  Lemming turns around as a result of building too far into another bridge,
  you will have to start over. If one breaks through the Bridge Wall base,
  you will have to start over. It will take the endless toil of about twelve
  or thirteen builders to make it work.
+ Once it does work, bash through the column. You only have two stabs at it,
  and with 80 of them in a crowded space, it doesn't always go as planned.
  Both elements will have to come together to make this one work. If you have
  to buy a new monitor because of this level, I don't hold myself liable.

--------------------------------------
Level 27   Island of the Wicker People
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 60   5 minutes
--------------------------------------
+ Let two go ahead and make the second one dig through the ledge the Lemmings 
  start out on. The first one needs to dig a hole of his own, but needs to
  come out ahead of the one behind him. Make them both climbers.
+ Hold the others with two blockers.
+ Near the bottom of the second one's digging, start mining. If there's one 
  hole going straight down, there's going to be a lot of splattage.
+ Wait for them to climb over the large mountain with the arrows in it. The
  first one needs to be a blocker sometime after you pass the steel ledge
  with the exit on it.
+ Have the second climber build up to the exit.
+ Blow up the blocker at the beginning so that the others file into the hole
  the digger made.
+ Put a pass-through blocker at the bottom of this hole and make one more
  climber.
+ When he hits the blocker on the other side of the mountain, make him bash
  through it on the return trip.
+ The others will then roam single-file to the exit.

--------------------------
Level 28   Lost something?
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 70   5 minutes
--------------------------
+ Stick a pass-through blocker under the entrance hatch.
+ If you haven't already noticed, it will appear as though there is no exit.
  There is one, in fact. It's hidden in that large clump of dirt on top of
  the thin steel ledge.
+ Build up to that large clump of dirt from the right side of it.
+ Bash, dig, and mine through it until you find the exit. The others will
  walk to it.

-------------------------
Level 29   Rainbow Island
80 Lemmings (98% saved)
RR 70   4 minutes
-------------------------
+ Put a pass-through blocker under the bottom opening hatch.
+ Bash through the top two rainbows.
+ In the middle of the second one, dig and mine to get them to the bottom.
+ Bash through to the exit. Remember not to let any Lemmings die in the
  shredders - the blocker is the only casualty you can allow.

-------------------------
Level 30   The Crankshaft
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 20   4 minutes
-------------------------
+ Don't worry about this level being a race against the clock. You ought to
  finish with a few seconds left to spare. Start by mining through the first
  column in your way.
+ Make two of the Lemmings athletes. They need to go all the way to the end
  of the level.
+ At every other column, let the lead athlete scale it, but make the second 
  one mine through it.
+ Near the exit, make the lead athlete a blocker. You only need him to make
  the other athlete turn around, so once he's done that, you can off him.
+ When the athlete is exactly between two pillars, start mining. This will
  put him in a position where he will end up near the bottom of the column
  so that the others can walk up into it.
+ Repeat the previous step once more so that the path is complete.
+ If everything goes as planned, all the Lemmings should make it to the exit.
+ That's all for the Tricky levels!


                      T H E   T A X I N G   L E V E L S

-----------------------------------------
Level 1   If at first you don't succeed..
80 Lemmings (98% saved)
RR 40   4 minutes
-----------------------------------------
+ Make an athlete climb over all three broken columns.
+ Use your two bashers on the first two columns.
+ Mine through the third. Your Lemming must be hugging the column as tightly
  as possible for it to go through correctly, or else he'll mine through the
  stairs and you'll have to restart the level.
+ When the miner has made a tunnel through the column, put a blocker as far
  up against the stairs as possible. We'll come back to him in a second.
+ Raise the release rate to 99 to get all the other Lemmings out in a hurry.
+ Meanwhile, you have an athlete to deal with. Build over the large pit.
+ Build over the hole that would ordinarily land you in the rope snare.
+ Blow up the blocker once the path is laid out. If he's close enough to the
  stairs, he should blow clear through them and allow the others to walk
  mindlessly to safety.

----------------------------------------
Level 2   Watch out, there's traps about
80 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 70   5 minutes
----------------------------------------
+ Put a set of two blockers on each side of the level.
+ On the left side, mine, dig, and then mine again (all to the right).
+ On the right side, dig and then mine to the left.
+ Bash through the gray lumpy thing to the left and the rock.
+ Place a blocker while one goes ahead to make the way for the rest.
+ Make one small bridge over the steel trap.
+ Build up to the exit and let the others go.

---------------------------------------
Level 3   Heaven can wait (we hope!!!!)
80 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 1    2 minutes
---------------------------------------
+ First off, with a release rate of 1 and only two minutes on the clock,
  there's no way 80 Lemmings are going to get to the exit in time. Pause
  before the hatch opens (which will give you about two more valuable
  seconds) and put it up to around 30.
+ Unpause and let one Lemming go by to be the builder for this level.
+ The one behind him needs to dig a holding cell. Dig a little bit and then
  build to cut him off.
+ When the front man starts to go up to the exit, max out the release rate.
+ When the builder Lemming starts on his last bridge, focus on the group in
  the hole. Build them out of their jam. Again, make sure they come out and
  go the right way or you just did a whole lot for nothing. You should finish
  by a close shave - just a few seconds.

---------------------------------
Level 4   Lend a helping hand....
40 Lemmings (75% saved)
RR 50   7 minutes
---------------------------------
+ Put a blocker in front of the rope snare.
+ The right side is separated from the left by a stubborn wall of steel. Use
  a Lemming over there to mine down to the left and then bash.
+ If he hits steel, use a blocker-bomber on the left side near the wall to
  help out his buddies on the right. If he doesn't, build to cut him off at
  some point.
+ Start on a zigzag staircase to the top of the level starting at about the
  central right portion of the left side. You will have to work cunningly to
  go around those pesky needles. Too many casualties will make you have to
  start over.
+ Save one builder for the top so you can elevate your Lemmings to the exit.

-----------------------
Level 5   The Prison!
60 Lemmings (75% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ The first Lemming needs to dig at the edge of the brick until he hits the
  patch of steel below.
+ Assign a blocker to the second Lemming to pacify the rest.
+ When the aforementioned digger hits steel, immediately build to the bar in
  front of him.
+ It's okay if he turns around. In fact, I'd let him. It will give you time
  to prepare for the meticulous detail involved in the task ahead.
+ Keep your fingers ready on the hot keys for this part. Bash through the
  bar, then hit F7 and build as soon as you get through it. There are very
  miniscule holes that separate the bars, and if you don't build over them,
  your basher-builder will slip through the cracks with ease.
+ Repeat the bashing and building until you come out a free man on the steps
  leading down.
+ Build a bridge to the lower exit. Bash through all four bars simultaneously
  by bashing at the bottom of them.
+ When there's a clear road, set the others free.

------------------------------
Level 6   Compression Method 1
50 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 99   3 minutes
------------------------------
+ Don't be alarmed by the lack of floaters. You're going to beat this level a
  different way.
+ Again, place a blocker next to the far left hatch so the Lemmings don't get
  whacked by a bunch of mashers.
+ Have one on the far left side dig. Make sure he is FACING RIGHT.
+ Don't let him dig but for about two seconds. Then, bash to the right.
+ One sign that he is bashing correctly is that others will start falling
  into the tunnel your basher is making. Everyone should do this. This tunnel
  is the difference between victory and defeat. Also, it should look as if he
  is about to stop because he doesn't have enough to bash, but he keeps on
  going. That's another good sign.
+ The part with the steel is the Moment Of Truth. If you dug too far down,
  the basher will come into contact with the steel and stop, in which case
  you need to restart and not dig so far down next time. If he goes through
  the steel and the base of the far right column at the same time, you were
  successful. The difference in height will be enough to keep the Lemmings
  from making the ground below a splatty mess. Try to save more than 60% if
  at all possible.

--------------------------------------
Level 7   Every Lemming for himself!!!
80 Lemmings (97% saved)
RR 55   3 minutes
--------------------------------------
+ Make the first Lemming a climber.
+ When two Lemmings are over the huge mountain to the right of the entrance
  hatch, make the second one a blocker to hold the others back.
+ While you're waiting for the climber to go over the left-pointing rock, put
  the release rate all the way up to 99.
+ Remember that the climber will just walk over the gray clump at the end of
  the steel plateau, so build into it to turn him around.
+ Bash through the left-pointing wall.
+ Allow the climber to run into the blocker and turn around.
+ Have that climber build to the exit.
+ Just before he gets done, bomb the blocker and let the others walk to the
  exit.

-------------------------
Level 8   The Art Gallery
80 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 20   4 minutes
-------------------------
+ Have the first Lemming walk over the arc of spheres.
+ Make the second Lemming out bash through it and build to hold the others
  in. Remember to save them all.
+ With the Lemming you let by, forge a path as usual.
+ Bash through the other part of the sphere arc to let the others out.

------------------------
Level 9   Perseverance
20 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 50   4 minutes
------------------------
+ Make the first Lemming dig as soon as he hits the ground.
+ One Lemming will walk out of the hole and fall off the ledge to the right.
  Use your only floater on him.
+ When that floater touches the ground, make him mine to the right and into
  the steel block so that the others will turn around and head for the exit.
  The two blockers are a ruse! DON'T USE THEM!
+ Raise the release rate to 99 so you don't have to worry about splattage.
+ After the digger is all the way through the hole, they will walk down into
  the small mined tunnel, turn around, and head for the exit.

-----------------------------------------
Level 10   Izzie Wizzie Lemmings get busy
5 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------------------------
+ Build a bridge so the five Lemmings can get out.
+ Build a similar staircase out of the second hole they walk into.
+ You will have to make each one that walks up to the top build to the next
  one so that none fall. Try to use as few builders as possible to do this
  since you only get fifteen of them.
+ At the next one, if you have the CD version, build a bridge up and let them
  walk off. If you have the floppy disk version, build a small one up against
  the wall and bash through to keep them from splatting.
+ After that, continue building to get to the exit.

----------------------------------------
Level 11   The ascending pillar scenario
50 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 20   4 minutes
----------------------------------------
+ Have the first one dig somewhere to the near right of the pillar you start
  on. While he's digging, turn him into a climber.
+ Build to cut off the hole. The climber-digger will turn left and go out of
  the hole in the desired direction.
+ Pause and put the release rate up to 99 to get them all out of that hatch.
+ Press F7 to set the taskbar on the builder and unpause the game. Make the
  climber build, but NOT TOO CLOSE TO THE NEXT PILLAR. This is going to be,
  indeed, a very taxing level. You must build up to each pillar so that the
  builder barely finishes upon getting to it. If he turns around, you're in a
  lot of trouble, because you need all the time you're given to beat this.
  Make sure that for each pillar all the way up to the last one, you build to
  it without running into it and turning around.
+ Once at the top, dig through the pillar.
+ Mine through it once you are quite a way down through it.
+ Build over the small pit.
+ Make a zigzag staircase going out of the hole at the beginning to the left.

-----------------------------
Level 12   Livin' On The Edge
10 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
-----------------------------
+ This level is made EXTREMELY easy by the fact that you can get away with
  using two blockers at the beginning. While you make the first one build to
  the wall, close in the other seven Lemmings with two blockers. Don't put
  them too close to the builder's bridge though.
+ Bash through the wall when you come to it.
+ There's a reason this level is called Livin' On The Edge - when you come to
  an edge, you need to build a bridge as close to it as possible. Except for
  when you come out from bashing through the wall, you should use only one
  bridge per edge.
+ When you have successfully used one bridge per edge, blow up the blocker
  that is keeping the Lemmings from the exit. Really, this one should have
  been in Fun, I think.

---------------------------
Level 13   Upsidedown World
80 Lemmings (98% saved)
RR 40   6 minutes
---------------------------
+ Put a blocker to the right of the entrance hatch. This is the only
  casualty you can spare in this entire level.
+ Mine as close to the right-pointing rock as you can. If you do it right,
  they should come out on the thin bridge to the lower left.
+ Make a climber. He'll head over the ground to the upper left and start
  heading toward the steel trap.
+ Mine under the steel trap. You might have to take a few tries to do this
  right, and you can't just use another one, because you need your miners to
  beat this level.
+ Once under the steel trap, start bashing. Your climber-basher should come
  out near a very tall dirt mound with arrows pointing right.
+ Climb over it. When he starts walking toward the exit, build into one of
  the roots sticking up to turn around.
+ This last part is the hardest of all. First, bash through the tall mound.
  Then, dig just very minutely through it so that the others can walk up to
  to the ledge. Finally, mine through it (the hardest part of this hardest
  part - it has the biggest potential for backfire).
+ If you successfully get through it, bash through the dirt clump you come
  to in order to release those congregated on the "V"-shaped bridge.
+ Hopefully you'll have it down!

-----------------------------
Level 14   Hunt the Nessy....
80 Lemmings (95% saved)
RR 30   8 minutes
-----------------------------
+ Let one go ahead and continue building until he gets to the "Nessy's" neck.
+ Have two blockers keep the rest of them in.
+ When your builder gets to Nessy's neck, bash halfway through it.
+ At the halfway point, dig down.
+ Bash again to get out.
+ Build to the exit and let the others go.

--------------------------------
Level 15   What an AWESOME level
80 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 50   6 minutes
--------------------------------
+ Allow one brave Lemming to make the path for the others while two blockers
  stave off the others.
+ Bash through the big worm's backside.
+ Keep bashing until you come to the last worm. There is a large dip here
  that is nearly impossible to build out of if you fall. You can run into the
  stars, but don't worry. They don't vaporize your builder or anything. If
  you run into one, bash through it and continue building to the exit on the
  worm's head.
+ Release the others upon finishing the path. Another special level come and
  gone ... yawn... 

-----------------------------
Level 16   Mary Poppins' land
80 Lemmings (95% saved)
RR 50   3 minutes
-----------------------------
+ Make three floaters.
+ Use a blocker to keep the rest of the Lemmings in.
+ Max out the release rate.
+ Let the two lead floaters continue on up the hill and go over. Make the
  third one build into the slope so he turns around.
+ Immediately build a bridge to the ledge that the blocker is on. They'll
  need something to step onto so that they don't splat.
+ Meanwhile, with the others headed near the exit, make the one in front
  block it off.
+ When the other floater turns around, have him start building a bridge just 
  before he gets to the brick over the lava. It should go up far enough to
  again save the others from meeting with splattage.
+ Once all the bridge building is overwith, blow up both blockers that are
  inhibiting forward progress.

---------------------------
Level 17   X Marks the Spot
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 50   7 minutes
---------------------------
+ Mine down to the right. It doesn't matter if a few get by. There's no way
  eight of them will get by you, so it won't matter. Use a builder to cut off
  the tunnel.
+ Let one go off to the left to do the bashing and have the one behind him
  mine a tunnel to the left similar to the one going off to the right.
+ Bash and build to the exit as you did the last time you played this level.
+ Build out of the mined holding cell when there's a clear road to the exit.

---------------------------------
Level 18   Tribute to M.C. Escher
75 Lemmings (87% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
---------------------------------
+ Build a zigzag staircase starting when somebody turns around from hitting
  the thin pole wall to the left.
+ Build it until you get to the top of the wall with the arrows pointing
  left.
+ As soon as somebody walks on top of that wall, make him a bomber. This
  should make him go off when you go to the other side and blow a hole so
  that the Lemmings walk into it and don't splat when they hit the ground.
  This hole is integral to completing the level. If you fail, repeat these
  steps until you get it just right.

-----------------------
Level 19   Bomboozal
70 Lemmings (91% saved)
RR 80   2 minutes
-----------------------
+ This is just like "Let's block and blow", except you don't have any
  blockers. Knowing this, you'll also realize how many hours of toil you
  could spend getting those Lemmings in just the right spot. However, that
  shouldn't be a problem anymore. Words fail me when trying to explain how to
  beat this level, so I've devised a nifty layout of the level that will let
  you know exactly when to bomb. The numbers will tell you where to use each
  bomber.

  Numbers = where to bomb
  Stars = fire boxes

   |1    2                       |
   |-----------------------------|
   |  ****  |       |   ****     |
   |-----------------------------|
   |            |           |    |
   |      ****  |          3|    |
   |-----------------------------|
   |     4          |    ****    |
   |-----------------------------|
   |      **** |    5            |
   |-----------------------------|
   |                         |
   |                    **** | -> to exit
   |----------------------------------------

  On #4, make sure the Lemming is walking to the right before you bomb him.
  Also, you can only use five bombers and no more. If you use any more, you
  will not meet the level's minimum requirement of 91%.

----------------------------
Level 20   Walk the web rope
80 Lemmings (88% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------------
+ Put a pass-through blocker at the beginning.
+ Don't bash through the web at the very start. Build out to the left some.
+ Put a blocker at the end of the first bridge you build.
+ Build up to the right and hit the web.
+ Bash, build, and bash one more time. This will let you bash straight
  through the web to the long thin ground ahead.
+ Bash through the second web to the exit. Raise the release rate to 99 if
  you haven't already.

-------------------------
Level 21   Feel the heat!
20 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 70   2 minutes
-------------------------
+ Make a climber go up the wall to the right.
+ Have him build at the edge. The fire blowers are situated so that the only
  way the Lemmings can safely reach the exit. Therefore, the bridge will have
  to come to an abrupt halt at some point.
+ When the builder is directly over the exit, make him bash to stop. If he
  falls in the exit without getting burned, it is safe for the others as
  well.
+ Create another climber.
+ When he's up on the ledge, have him mine into the steel.
+ Mine in the other direction to let the others out of their alcove.
+ They should go into the exit and barely avoid the flames licking at them.

-----------------------------------
Level 22   Come on over to my place
50 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
-----------------------------------
+ Put a blocker to the right of the entrance hatch.
+ Build over the narrow pit to the left.
+ Mine through the stairs to the left. Use a builder to cut him off before he
  gets all the way through.
+ Build up to the canopy-like ledge at the top of the level.
+ When the first one falls off the canopy and is heading toward the acid, dig
  a little bit. Build to cut him off.
+ Build to the exit and raise the release rate to 99.

-----------------------------
Level 23   King of the castle
80 Lemmings (95% saved)
RR 40   5 minutes
-----------------------------
+ You must use your builders sparingly in order to beat this level, and you
  can only kill four of your Lemmings, so be careful. I'm going to give you
  an inventory for this level instead of an explanation. This should make it
  easier to know if your builder supply is wearing too thin.

     3 builders for the pit to the left
     3 to close it up on the other side
     3 to get up to the second floor
     3 to get up to the third floor
     3 to get up to the fourth floor
     3 to get up to the fifth floor

  As you can see, you should have two builders left over in case you need
  help in other areas. The biggest help I can offer is not to use too many
  builders on the pit on the first floor. If you use too many there, you
  won't be able to get to the top of the level.

-----------------------------------
Level 24   Take a running jump.....
80 Lemmings (98% saved)
RR 50   3 minutes
-----------------------------------
+ Use as many builders as it takes to get over the first gap without letting
  any Lemmings die.
+ Find the blue bricks in the bottom right corner. Where the two sections
  appear to meet, there is a VERY thin gap right there that they can get
  through. Have one build within that tiny gap. The one tile he lays will
  keep the others from going through to the death above. That one Lemming
  will then walk all the way to the top of the level and then to the left
  before plummeting off a brick and dying. If you don't get what I'm saying,
  you will when you see it all happen.
+ With the bridge tile in place, however, the Lemmings will turn around and
  head for the exit. When they get down into the hole with the chain links,
  build left out of it.

-------------------------------
Level 25   Follow the leader...
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 20   4 minutes
-------------------------------
+ You don't need to do anything until the first Lemming in line gets to the
  very last hill. Have him build a little to the right of the middle.
+ Make the Lemming behind him bash through the left side of the last hill.
  Build part of the way through to cut him off.
+ Make a hole pointing left in the hill next to it.
+ It will take four bridges for the builder to get up to the exit, and you're
  using two of them to keep the bashers from bashing through hills until
  there comes an end to the hills. That leaves you with one builder. You must
  use him to successfully get out of the holding cell you've burrowed. If it
  doesn't get them out of the hole or the builder goes the wrong way, restart
  the level and repeat these steps until you get it. Also, at some point you
  will need to max out the release rate.

-------------------------
Level 26   Triple Trouble
80 Lemmings (98% saved)
RR 80   5 minutes
-------------------------
+ Speaking personally, I would have put this level in Mayhem, but I didn't
  make the game, now did I? There is one thing you can do to ensure that
  some of the Lemmings make it, however, and that is to create a digger just
  to the right of the top hatch. You'll save one-third of them instantly.
+ Now concentrate on the lower left corner. Make a climber come out of the
  alcove. As soon as he hops on top of the steel block, make him build to the
  ring in the center. Do this until he has made a secure bridge connected to
  the ring.
+ Repeat the previous step with a climber-builder in the lower right corner.
+ When one bashes through to the other side, he should clear out the ground
  below the door. Have one of the climbers build up to the exit.
+ Now comes the Moment Of Truth that you'll have to face in some levels. Will
  the throng of Lemmings in each corner be able to build out of their
  respective shelters using only one builder each? Oh, the suspense! If you
  do it successfully, you'll beat the level! If you don't, oh, who knows!
  Start over, maybe! But not after you've come so far! If the Lemmings do get
  out of their holes and make it to the exit - all of them (it is possible to
  easily save 100%) - you can wipe your brow in relief and continue.

------------------------------------
Level 27   Here comes the bomb squad
80 Lemmings (60% saved)
RR 10   5 minutes
------------------------------------
+ Put a pass-through blocker at the beginning of the level.
+ Put one up on the elevated yellow block as well.
+ Build up to the row of blocks upon which the exit rests until you hit your
  head and turn around.
+ Put a blocker at the top of the bridge and blow him up.
+ Continue building, blocking, and bombing in this fashion until you have
  made a hole clear through the blocks.
+ Build out of the crude tunnel and proceed to the exit.

------------------------------
Level 28   POOR WEE CREATURES!
80 Lemmings (70% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
------------------------------
+ Make the first Lemming a floater. He is the only one you can have in this
  whole level.
+ Make him build a zigzag staircase until Lemmings stop splatting. This is
  extremely difficult. Try to count how many you let die. If you kill more
  than 24, you can't complete the level (70% of 80 is 56). Also, do not use
  more than five builders while in this space.
+ If you make it work, make it so that a blocker keeps the Lemmings held in
  while the floater goes ahead and makes a path.
+ Use two builders to get over the water.
+ Bash through the myriad crystals up ahead.
+ Another Moment Of Truth at the top of the fence: see that trap? It's sort
  of a Ghostbusters-style thing that sucks Lemmings in and kills them. (See
  the Appendix of Traps if you don't understand completely.) You must have a
  spare builder in your inventory to get over it. If you don't ... too bad!
+ If you do manage to hurdle it though, blow up the blocker and let the
  others enjoy paradise as well.

--------------------------------
Level 29   How do I dig the way?
80 Lemmings (95% saved)
RR 80   4 minutes
--------------------------------
+ Let one Lemming go ahead while two blockers keep the others at bay.
+ Just like the last time you played this level, dig, bash, and mine through 
  the ledge so the others have a path to follow down to the bridge so that 
  they don't splat.
+ Odds are, if you're consulting this FAQ for help on this level, you're
  despairing because your builders seem to be in rather short supply. Don't
  worry, I can handle this easily. Only build over the water. Yes, you heard
  me, only over the water.
+ When the builder is successfully past his watery grave, make him climb up
  the plateau where the exit is.
+ Dig about an inch before the exit. You want to dig for about two seconds,
  then build to cut him off.
+ As soon as he hits the wall and turns around, have him mine the long
  distance down to the bridge. This will form a tunnel that will effectively
  lead all the other Lemmings up THROUGH the plateau to the exit.
+ It's okay to let the climber fall into the water and die on his return
  trip. Just blow up the blocker at the top and let the others walk through</pre><pre id="faqspan-3">
  the brave miner's upward tunnel to victory.

---------------------------
Level 30   We all fall down
60 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 1   3 minutes
---------------------------
+ If you have the CD version of this game, you know the drill.
+ For floppy disk users, pause and put the release rate as far up as you feel
  comfortable with. A good speed for this level would be about 70.


                      T H E   M A Y H E M   L E V E L S

-----------------------
Level 1   Steel Works
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 15   8 minutes
-----------------------
+ Here is yet another level where the CD's increased splat distance factors
  into play. You won't have to use a floater at the beginning if you play
  with the CD, but if you have the floppy disk, make the first one out of the
  hatch a floater. In fact, do that if you have the CD anyway. You'll need
  him to be a floater for the next drop.
+ As soon as that floater hits the ground, make him build a bridge. The minor
  change in fall distance is enough to save them all from high-altitude
  deaths.
+ Put two blockers in place to hold back the others.
+ When the floater drops gently to the hole below, let him hit the wall to
  the right and then turn around. In the middle of the hole, start building
  your way out.
+ Once at the top, he will finally wind his way down to a very tiny hole.
  Build one bridge to get out.
+ Erect bridges over the water. Dig when you find yourself over a steel
  stepping stone and then start building again when you land.
+ When you get to the end of the water, start building a zigzagging staircase
  up. You need to make it all the way to the top before your builders are
  totally expended. Thirty may seem like enough, but it won't be if you're
  wasteful with them.
+ When you are at the top, let the others go.

-------------------------
Level 2   The Boiler Room
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 30   6 minutes
-------------------------
+ Let one walk to the left and put a blocker behind him to ward off the
  others.
+ Build as close to the steel wall as you can without actually hitting it. Do
  this, and you will fall to the ledge below.
+ It is important to note here that no matter where you build, YOU CANNOT
  BUILD UP THROUGH THE FIRE BLOWER! It doesn't matter how far away you get
  from it; the flames are unbending in their death sentence on your blocker.
  Instead, build to the part under the ledge that has the exit on it. Build
  until you go up through the ledge. Make sure that you have built bridges to
  keep the other Lemmings in that general area when they come up there.
+ Once the builder comes out on top of the ledge, turn him into a blocker and
  blow a hole through the edge.
+ Release the others and make them build a short bridge to the exit.

-------------------------
Level 3   It's hero time! 
25 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 99   1 minute
-------------------------
+ Pause the game as soon as the level opens. If you wait for the sound
  effects to go on before the hatch opens, you'll get an extra two or three
  seconds out of this level - seconds that are sorely needed to beat it.
+ When you finally open the hatch, make the first Lemming an athlete.
+ Make the last Lemming in line mine through the ledge when he is above the
  thin floor below.
+ Have that trailing Lemming that just mined bash through the wall with the
  right-way-only arrows.
+ Build to fill in the tiny crack leading to the acid pool.
+ When the athlete gets to the floor above the exit, have him dig downward to
  it.
+ Hope and pray that they all make it in time.

------------------------
Level 4   The Crossroads
50 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 99   1 minute
------------------------
+ Pause before the level starts as you did with the last level.
+ Open up when you're ready and let your Lemmings go to the top right corner
  of the fence.
+ The gaps in the fences are bigger up here, so it's easier to get into the  
  web by bashing through this top part and then entering through the middle 
  of the web's left wall.
+ When you are inside the web, bash as soon as you get to each wall and
  everything will turn out all right.

----------------------------------------
Level 5   Down, along, up. In that order
80 Lemmings (75% saved)
RR 80   5 minutes
----------------------------------------
+ Dig down through the four platforms.
+ Station a blocker next to the lava as the Lemmings head right.
+ Put another one at the other end of the ground floor ledge.
+ Have someone build up to the first brick in the zigzag pattern (that leads
  up to the exit).
+ Put a blocker on the left side of the brick.
+ When some Lemming walks up to that brick, make him build left so that he
  runs into the blocker, turns around, and makes it to the next brick up by
  using only one builder.
+ Repeat this clever process to the end of the level. If the Lemming does not
  make it to the next ledge using only one builder, you must start over. You
  only have five blockers to use, which is the minimum for completing this
  task.

----------------------------
Level 6   One way or another
75 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 50   4 minutes
----------------------------
+ Make the first Lemming start building a bridge on the steel. When he has
  built one tile, make him mine into the steel so he will go the opposite
  direction of all the others.
+ Increase the release rate of 99 to get the others into the safe hole to the
  right.
+ Have the deviant Lemming build over the hole between the steel ledges and
  then to the wall to the far left. If you hit the wall, have him mine
  through the bridge at a point that will not cause them to splat.
+ Build over the lump with the arrows pointing right (since you have no
  bashers).
+ As soon as you start building the pivotal bridge that leads to the exit,
  start multitasking and build the others out of their jam. You must go left
  to get out. Try using only two bridges if at all possible.

-----------------------
Level 7   Poles Apart
50 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ Build only one bridge over the pit near the beginning. You will have to
  sacrifice a few Lemmings, but make sure that no more than five die.
+ As soon as the first Lemming to successfully make it to the other side does
  so, have him dig a small distance and then build out of his hole. This
  ought to keep them from walking off into the pit at left.
+ Once you have secured the Lemmings in a comfy alcove, make one a climber.
+ When he gets to the top of the second pole, make him dig.
+ Build to the next one when you get to the ground.
+ Bash through it when you come to it. Make sure the climber DOES NOT turn
  around.
+ Repeat the three previous steps twice more to escape the poles.
+ Build to the exit over the small hole before it.
+ When the path is cleared, have the Lemmings in their holding cell bash
  through the first pole.

---------------------------------------
Level 8   Last one out is a rotten egg!
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 55   5 minutes
---------------------------------------
+ Allow one Lemming the chance to proceed while keeping the others in with
  two blockers.
+ Build to the wall with the arrows that point left.
+ You can let the builder turn around when he runs into that large stack of
  bricks. On the way back to the wall, turn him into a climber.
+ Your climber will eventually get to the top of the wall. When he is there,
  have him dig at the right edge. Dig until you are at the perfect spot to
  tunnel diagonally to the bridge on the other side.
+ When you are at that perfect spot, build to the right. He will turn around
  soon enough.
+ Start mining when you get to the wall and pray that you gauged the angles
  correctly.
+ If you did, you will end up back on the bridge you built at the beginning.
  Make sure that the others can go up through the tunnel that you made.
+ When you get back to the right edge of the wall, dig some more. You need to
  make a way down for the others.
+ When you are down enough that they won't splat, build one bridge.
+ Mine through it to cut it off in mid-build.
+ When the climber reaches the exit with success, allow the others to follow
  in his successful footsteps.

-------------------------------
Level 9   Curse of the Pharaohs
80 Lemmings (98% saved)
RR 90   4 minutes
-------------------------------
+ Put a blocker in front of the water. This is the only Lemming that is
  permitted to die in this whole level.
+ Bash left through the part of the pillar that sticks out, the thin wooden
  plank, and the pillar connected to the mess of bricks.
+ Dig through the left edge of the vertical brick just before the broken
  staircase.
+ When your digging meets the ground, have the digger build out of the hole
  (staircase and all).
+ Build up to the pyramid (use only two bridges if possible) and bash through 
  it.
+ You now have either eight or nine bridges with which to make a zigzagging
  staircase leading up to the exit. This is no simple task. Can you do it?
  It all rides on your ability to build that bridge!

------------------------------
Level 10   Pillars of Hercules
75 Lemmings (66% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
------------------------------
+ Use up all three of your floaters at the beginning. Make your first one
  erect a zigzagging staircase until the splatting ceases. Ensure that it is
  at least as high as the two small ledges poking out of the middle of the
  thin poles holding you in.
+ Have one of the floaters climb out to the left. The left path is far easier
  to take than the right.
+ When he gets to the top, have him dig down to the smaller ledge below.
+ Build to each successive ledge until you get to the exit.
+ Max out the release rate and have one of them bash through to that tiny
  middle ledge. They should all walk to the exit from there.

---------------------------
Level 11   We all fall down
80 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 1   3 minutes
---------------------------
+ CD users, yawn your way through the last of these dreary levels.
+ Floppy users, put the release rate up to at least 90 to have a chance at
  winning here.

------------------------
Level 12   The Far Side
75 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 50   4 minutes
------------------------
+ Have the first Lemming out of the hatch climb out of this steel pit to his
  left.
+ Dig through the dirt portion, then bash at the bottom to lead the others
  out of it safely.
+ On the ledge you come out on, there is a bit of dirt between the two pieces
  of steel. Mine down as far left as you can until you hit steel and turn
  around.
+ Drop to the rock at the bottom and build to the hill to the right.
+ Bash through between the steel columns.
+ Once through, start zigzagging up to the exit.
+ While you're doing that, have the others build out of their hole to save
  time. Multitasking will help you finish this one up with time to spare.

----------------------------------
Level 13   The Great Lemming Caper
2 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
----------------------------------
+ Have the first one build across to the next ledge.
+ Make the second one float down to the bottom.
+ When the floater gets to the bottom, have him bash through the brick.
+ While he's bashing, turn him into a climber as well.
+ Meanwhile, when the builder has finished his bridge, wait for him to drop
  down and let him build to the wall in front of the exit.
+ If everything comes together correctly, the athlete at the bottom should
  climb up through the bridge just before the builder hits the wall, and will
  float down onto a finished bridge. This will put them both in the spot they
  need to be in.
+ At this point, you can bash through to the exit.

-----------------------
Level 14   Pea Soup
80 Lemmings (93% saved)
RR 70   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ Build up to the small ledge to the left and have a Lemming block there.
+ Start one building to the right - up to the bowl of "pea soup."
+ Have a Lemming dig through the bridge to keep others from going up with the
  builders.
+ Use a combination of builders and diggers to go from meatball to meatball
  (or whatever the heck those brown humps are). It will take a while to get
  across the "bowl."
+ When you have made a path to the exit, fill in the hole in the bridge.

SPECIAL NOTE: On some older computers, the meatballs or whatever they are 
will not show up due to certain color configurations or palette changes. If 
this happens to you, you're obviously going to have a hard time beating this 
level. Therefore, it is in your best interest to locate the password to the 
next level, or just die a whole lot trying. Perseverance is key!

-----------------------------------
Level 15   The Fast Food Kitchen...
80 Lemmings (75% saved)
RR 60   3 minutes
-----------------------------------
+ Multitasking is your best friend here. Handle both sides of the level at
  the same time and you will do just fine.
+ Put a set of two blockers on each side while letting one Lemming pass.
  Pausing while switching sides of the screen will make this tons easier.
+ Have each bash through the obstacles on their respective sides.
+ You will get five builders for each Lemming on each side. This is probably
  more than enough to handle it, but go ahead and make each one build up.
+ Keep your eyes on both of them simultaneously, making each one build again
  when they run out of tiles.
+ When each is near the end of the line, release the trapped Lemmings on
  their side. Done all at the same time, this one is a real piece of cake.

---------------------------
Level 16   Just a Minute...
50 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 10   1 minute
---------------------------
+ This is by far one of THE most hellish levels in the game. If you do it the
  way I tell you to, you can just repeat this solution for another variation
  of this level that you will have to play later.
+ Have four Lemmings bash through the large wall in front of you at once.   
  Only make them bash as they come to the wall.
+ Have the fifth dig behind them a little of the way down.
+ After digging far enough that they can't walk out to the left and into the
  shredder behind the entrance hatch, start making him bash as well.
+ Raise the release rate to 99.
+ Hopefully, all your Lemmings will make it to the exit just in time. You'll
  never finish this level with more than one second left, I promise you.

--------------------------
Level 17   Stepping Stones
80 Lemmings (88% saved)
RR 50   4 minutes
--------------------------
+ Let one go to the edge while the others remain held back by a blocker.
+ Build as close to the edge as possible to the VERY thin ledges ahead. Each
  is just barely out of the reach of two bridges, so you'll have to build one
  step of a third bridge and then bash to cut it off.
+ As soon as he bashes and falls to the single pastel tile, start building
  again.
+ Continue to the end of the level in this fashion. The easiest way to do so
  is to keep your fingers hovering over F7 and F8 at all times. These two hot
  keys will be your best friend in this level.
+ After building to the exit, you will have only one builder left. You must
  use this one builder as a means of getting past your blocker. If you don't
  make it, you'll have to start over. Sorry, kid - them's the breaks.

---------------------------------------
Level 18   And then there were four....
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 1   9 minutes
---------------------------------------
+ This is not a difficult level, and it doesn't even take a very long time to
  beat as the clock would suggest. First, concentrate on the upper hatches.
  They are the ones that need your attention the most.
+ On the left side, have a Lemming build over the pit looming over the water
  while a blocker keeps the others safe.
+ Meanwhile, on the right side, you need to dig a hole near the end of the
  dirt cliff to prevent splatting. Place a blocker to keep those Lemmings up
  there held in as well.
+ Attending to the left side once more, you need to watch the guy that was
  building until he gets to the steel edge by the water at the bottom.
+ Build a zigzag staircase up to the exit's level. It doesn't matter if there
  are holes near where you run into the walls and turn around. A guy in the
  lower left corner will fill them in a little bit.
+ Watch for your Lemming on the right side as well. Have him build left over
  the water when he gets near the exit.
+ Have each build one small bridge over the steel humps.
+ When this has been accomplished, blow up each blocker at the top level.
+ In the two lower arenas, get a climber to come up out of each one and build
  a zigzag staircase up to the exit level. For the one on the left, make sure
  his connects with the one that is already there to prevent water deaths.
+ When each staircase is complete, you can build those remaining out of their
  shelters.

--------------------------
Level 19   Time to get up!
50 Lemmings (92% saved)
RR 20   5 minutes
--------------------------
+ Make the first two Lemmings climbers.
+ Bomb the first one in such a spot that he explodes right on the first thin 
  wall blocking the exit.
+ To make a straight hole through that thin wall, bomb just a little bit
  after the point where you bombed the first climber.
+ By now other Lemmings should be toddling about on the ground. Make the
  second one in the line a blocker, leaving one to build up to the hole that
  was just made.
+ Build up to the hole the climber-bombers made. Be sure that you connect it
  to the wall with no holes that any others could potentially slip through.
+ Build up over the blocker to release the others. They will slowly ascend
  the staircase.
+ Bomb the next Lemming as soon as he walks into the bombed hole. This should
  put him at the wall when he goes off.
+ Bomb another one just after that point to finish the job.

---------------------------------------
Level 20   No added colours or Lemmings
50 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 85   5 minutes
---------------------------------------
+ Make the first Lemming bash through the column ahead.
+ Put a blocker behind to hold the others back.
+ If you build at the very edge of the platform, you should hit it and turn
  around. You want this to happen.
+ Mine under the blocker to make him a walker again. The miner will go all
  the way down to the bottom.
+ Have the last Lemming in line at the top mine through the end of the
  bridge. This will create a hole that he and the miner who went through to
  the bottom can climb up through.
+ Have them both climb out of the lower area.

-----------------------------------------
Level 21   With a twist of lemming please
50 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
-----------------------------------------
+ Make every single Lemming out of the hatch a floater. You have enough for
  the job. Feel free to speed up the release rate to a comfortable setting.
+ When they are all made into floaters, have one take on the daring task of
  becoming an athlete.
+ Where the tallest vertical part of the plateau meets the shortest part,
  dig. Dig almost to the very bottom, by the column parallel to the exit.
+ When you are there, build to it and then to the exit.
+ You only get one chance to bash your way out of the pit holding the other
  Lemmings, so discern which direction they are walking in and bash with
  high hopes! If they make, they will eagerly follow the athlete's trail to
  paradise. 

-------------------------------
Level 22   A BeastII of a level
80 Lemmings (85% saved)
RR 75   5 minutes
-------------------------------
+ Do the two-blocker-encasing thing that's so boring to all of us by now. Oh,
  and let one Lemming proceed to make a way, of course. I'm stifling a yawn.
+ Build to and bash through each chandelier.
+ Ahead is a horribly disfigured object that you will have to bash through.
  It looks to me like a tree blown horribly out of proportion. There are
  several unanticipated empty spaces in it, so only bash as necessary.
+ When you come out, build across the pit.
+ Bash through to the end of the level.
+ Let out the others.

--------------------------
Level 23   Going up.......
80 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 70   9 minutes
--------------------------
+ Use one basher to get through the diagonal wall to the right.
+ When the Lemmings make it to the top, they will turn around and start
  walking left. Have one build his way out of the diagonal tunnel.
+ Build a bridge that extends upward and left to the very top of the level.
+ Bash through the top of the wall. While the basher is doing his job, turn
  him into a floater.
+ The floater should land on an incline going up and left.
+ Build a bridge out to the right to prevent Lemmings from splatting here
  upon their arrival.
+ At the end of that bridge (an end you will determine), make the building
  floater a blocker.
+ Let the others go. Get them out of their rut and over here.
+ When they get to the same incline that the builder-floater-blocker was on,
  have the leader bash through the sphere at the top. They'll do the rest on
  their own.

-------------------------
Level 24   All or Nothing
50 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 99   1 minute
-------------------------
+ With only three bashers in your inventory, it's do or die time. If you
  screw up even once, you have to start over. A good tactic I can offer
  here is to wait only a split second after the first Lemming falls in the
  narrow gap to bash. This is defined by the time it takes him to hit a
  wall and turn around once. Only your own mad skillz will lead you to
  victory, though. Good luck.

---------------------------
Level 25   Have a nice day!
80 Lemmings (90% saved)
RR 1    5 minutes
---------------------------
+ Use the same level solution that you used for "Lemming Drops" (13 Tricky) 
  to beat this one. The only difference is that you will have to build your
  way over the blockers instead of blowing one up.

------------------------------------
Level 26   The Steel Mines of Kessel
80 Lemmings (75% saved)
RR 50   8 minutes
------------------------------------
+ Use blockers and bombers to pass through the wall to your right. Bomb at
  the thinnest parts of the wall to use the lowest amount possible. This
  alone will make you spend approximately half your blocker and bomber
  supplies.
+ After successfully excavating through this wall, let one proceed while a
  blocker holds the rest back.
+ Make that blocker build up to the thin slice of dirt. (Do you see what I'm
  getting at already? Good!)
+ When he is across to the other side, have him block on that thin slice and
  bomb him to kingdom come. This should make a hole for the others.
+ Explode the blocker and let the others continue to the steel trap. If
  you worry about losing too many, have a blocker stave off the others while
  a loner builds over the trap.
+ After a bridge has been constructed over the metal death, allow the others
  to trudge onward to the exit.

-----------------------------------
Level 27   Just a Minute (Part Two)
50 Lemmings (100% saved)
RR 10   1 minute
-----------------------------------
+ The fundamental difference between the first Just A Minute and the second
  is that there is a small ledge missing from this one that was a part of
  the first one. Other than that, the two are identical. You shouldn't need
  this ledge to complete the level, however, because I saw into the future,
  so to speak, when writing that level solution. Use the same solution I
  wrote for that level to beat this one. (It's 16 Mayhem, in case you're not
  aware.) You'll have to depend on the same luck to beat this one that you
  did for that one.

-----------------------------
Level 28   Mind the step.....
1 Lemming (100% saved)
RR 1    7 minutes
-----------------------------
+ Let the lone Lemming in this level walk upstairs. Have him dig directly
  above one of the tiny ledges below.
+ Once down there, build your way over to the bricks on the tallest spaghetti
  pole.
+ Dig a short distance into those bricks and build to turn the Lemming
  around.
+ Fall to the small ledge below and build one bridge to each successive one.
+ Eventually you will build to a thick column. Bash halfway through it, dig
  down some, and then bash your way out of it when you're down far enough.
+ Keep on building and bashing until you are on the set of stairs that leads
  down to the bottomless pit.
+ Build to the under part of the stairs to your upper left. It may take a
  while to get it connected to that part so you can bash through, but take it
  one bridge at a time. Do not go on a bridge-building rampage trying to get
  up there. You will run out of builders faster than you think if you try any
  monkey business.
+ Once you do bash through, make absolutely sure you have a builder left over
  to get over the masher. Notice that because of the presence of steel, you
  cannot go under it.
+ Walk to the wall at the bottom of Masher Hill. If you have a basher left
  over after all this, then by gum you beat the level!

-----------------------
Level 29   Save Me
80 Lemmings (80% saved)
RR 50   5 minutes
-----------------------
+ Put blockers at the ends of the steel ledge.
+ Have one of the Lemmings build outward to the right. It helps if he is
  pretty far left when he starts building.
+ Make another Lemming build on the bridge that the first builder is making.
+ At some point, have one Lemming dig a hole through the bridge behind the
  builder. The others will leave the builders alone while they are free to 
  build.
+ When the original builder is far enough out for a staircase going left to
  be built, make him a blocker. 
+ The other builder can now stop building and make one going out to the left.
  Get him up to the top of the steel ledge above the entrance hatch.
+ Build to the broken column pointing down.
+ Bash through it halfway and then start digging.
+ When you're far enough down not to splat, bash through again.
+ Allow him to walk all the way to the end of the walkable ledges.
+ When he falls to the steel ledge above the exit, make him a blocker.
+ Build over the hole you dug in the bridge at the beginning of the level.
  The Lemmings will start heading for the exit. They should turn around when
  they fall on the blocker near the end.
+ When one lands on the ledge with the exit, make him a blocker as well. The
  rest of the Lemmings will go down to the exit.

-------------------------------------
Level 30   Rendezvous at the Mountain
80 Lemmings (75% saved)
RR 20   9 minutes
-------------------------------------
+ Increase the release rate to 50, first of all. The Lemmings will come out
  of each hatch faster if you up it to that level, and it will be easier to
  keep track of them.
+ Pause it at the beginning and go all the way to the right.
+ Unpause and put a blocker there to keep the others from falling off the
  edge of the known universe.
+ Pause again and rush back to the other side. For now, you're done with the
  right half of the level. Possibly, by now, your Lemmings have encountered
  the dreadful retractable boulder trap. This thing is a real menace to you
  and should be evaded upon realization that it can kill your Lemmings.
+ To do that, put a blocker in front of all the Lemmings on this side except
  for one. He needs to mine under the boulder's trajectory.
+ When he is sufficiently below it, bash until he is out. The boulder near
  the trap one that looks identical is, in fact, not a trap - totally safe to
  walk under.
+ Bash through the large monolith-style rock.
+ Build to the hill ahead and over the steel trap on it. You will have to
  bash through the quaint little well to get by it, too.
+ Bash through the large columns of dirt, building over the water ever so
  carefully so as to make it safe for the others.
+ After you're out, just build a tiny little bridge so they don't all end up
  in that crack at the bottom of the mountain. They can walk up the rest of
  the way.
+ Blow up the blocker on the left side and send half of your last batch of
  Lemmings to safety.
+ Now we travel over to the right half. There is undoubtedly now a
  respectable throng of the little green-haired creatures romping about. Make
  one of those roaming hairballs a blocker so that one is trapped off to the
  left and can also make a path for the others.
+ Bash through that lump of gray crud to your left.
+ Construct a zigzagging staircase that ends just above the arrows forcefully
  pointing against you.
+ Bash through that spot of leeway and drop to the bottom. A few parts that
  stick out from the gray lumps will break your fall.
+ Yes, you must bash to get past that tiny insignificant signpost.
+ Build over the activator button for the 10-ton weight. In fact, while
  you're at it, build up to the rocks by the water. If you get up far enough
  on them, the builder should at some point be able to leisurely walk up
  them.
+ Keep on building up and left and before you know it, you'll have a viable
  pathway to the game's last exit.
+ Let the others go and watch as the game you've invested hours in ends
  before your very eyes.
+ Congratulations on beating the Mayhem levels! And also the entire game!

After this, you will see a rather minimalistic congratulatory screen telling 
you that you are now a Lemmings Elite Master and that you have successfully 
completed the Save the Lemmings Campaign and a bunch of other nonsense that 
all packs up into a nice, trite ending. From here, it's your choice as to 
what to do with the game. You can go through it again; you can play its 
pseudo-sequel "Oh No! More Lemmings" (under my strong recommendation); or you 
can lock it up in that vault where you keep all your old games and never lay 
eyes on it again. I frankly don't care what you do, but anyway, 
congratulations for beating Lemmings! It's a very hard game! You should be 
satisfied!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        CREDITS & LEGAL DISCLAIMERS
                        ===========================
Finally, my second-longest FAQ ever comes to a close. This is more than just 
an FAQ to me. It's a big investment of time into helping the befuddled masses 
with a game I love a lot. Rest assured that this one is more eloquently 
worded than its primitive predecessor. It took me a lot longer to write this 
one than the last one, and I hope the amount of work I put into it is a 
testament to that. This is, of course, barring the fact that I am (almost) a 
Lemmings master and it took me five days to write what would take anyone else 
nearly a month or more. Yes, I am bragging. So what, who cares. Hopefully 
soon I will also have put together a very comprehensive guide for Oh No! More 
Lemmings, a Lemmings pseudo-sequel with far more depth than this masterpiece, 
if you can imagine that.

This FAQ is not my work alone, but is a conglomeration of the input of 
several other people as well. I've got the following people to thank for the 
development and publication of this long document:

** Neal Lundberg. He led me to GameFAQs and I went off running in my own
   direction. He also helped get me started on the road to writing my own
   FAQs, even though he's never had anything published on that site. Major
   thanks to him, for this is now the 23rd published FAQ of mine on the
   Internet. I wouldn't be in this business without him.

** A company called VTM Hypermart makes a nifty little utility called LemEdit
   that I used while making this document. It has detailed maps and vital
   statistics of most of the game's levels that I used frequently to help me
   out some. I thank both the utility and the company that made it, for it is
   a fun and easy program to use (it lets you make your own levels, even!)

** I say that I am ALMOST a Lemmings master because even I, the FAQ Writer
   Himself, am fallible. I got help - and the solutions - for two levels that 
   especially hurt my brain from R. Rouse's FAQ on GameFAQs (20 and 29  
   Mayhem). He is a great Lemmings strategist and his FAQ is a masterful
   document.

** My dad, who bestowed upon me the laptop with which I write nearly all my
   FAQs.

** All those who have helped to develop my gifts of writing, spelling, and
   forming sentences, without which this FAQ would not have been possible.

** DMA Design for developing this awesome game.

** Psygnosis for publishing this awesome game (that put them on the map!).

** Slash Corporation for distributing an awesome CD containing this and Oh
   No! More Lemmings.

** GameFAQs and any other site that posts this FAQ.

If you wish to use this on your site at all, I have guidelines regarding the 
legal use of this document on your website. First of all, the biggest of 
these is to first ask for permission before you use the document. All you 
need to do is send me a simple query of consent and make it short and sweet, 
and it's almost 100% likely the answer will be yes. I haven't had to worry 
about anyone jacking my intellectual property yet, and I don't want to have 
to.

After gaining the permission to use this document, do not change the text in 
the transition from one site to the other. Every word, every letter, and 
every space must remain as it is currently written. Any modifications are 
strictly forbidden by the disclaimers in this section of this document. While 
I don't allow changes to the text, changing the structure by any means (such 
as adding pictures) is perfectly fine by me.

Don't sell this document for money. Should a person need this for purposes of 
help but is without Internet access, give a copy to them for free with a 
smile on your face. I don't like my intellectual property sold for others' 
profit. If you're going to link to the walkthrough instead of using it on 
your site, link to the page containing the link. That link will be on 
GameFAQs, which is the site that all my walkthroughs go to first. Since I 
like the rule, I tend to abide by it. Lastly, and most importantly, DON'T 
PLAGIARIZE, or I will hunt you down like a helpless little forest animal and 
legal repercussions will come into play. Plagiarizing is not only illegal, 
it's incredibly stupid. I think I can tell if my own work's been illicitly 
duplicated.

This version of this walkthrough (1.1) is (C) July 22, 2002 by Snow Dragon, 
all rights reserved. The latest version of this walkthrough can always be 
found first at GameFAQs.

Have a nice day, and have fun playing Lemmings!

