*****************************************************************************

               Kaze no Klonoa: Moonlight Museum FAQ/Walkthrough
                             For the Wonderswan
                    Version 1.05 (Last Updated 7/3/2002)
                              By Devin Morgan

    This file is Copyright (c)2002-2006 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved.

*****************************************************************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Controls
4. Overview
5. Walkthrough
6. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
7. Copyright Notice
8. Contact Information

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version 1.05 (7/3/02): I changed my mind about covering the EX stages. They 
are hidden extra stages for an added challenge, so it'd be best if you 
figured them out on your own, therefore expect no coverage from me. And with 
that, this guide is done!

Version 1.0 (7/1/02): World 5 is now complete, as is the game for the most 
part! However, there are bonus EX stages that have been unlocked, which I 
will cover next update. For now, the main game walkthrough is totally 
complete!

Version 0.7 (6/30/02): All of the World 4 walkthrough is included with 
today's update, as well as the first 2 levels of World 5. Expect more of 
World 5 to come with another update.

Version 0.6 (6/27/02): Okay, so I didn't get a World 4 walkthrough up for 
this update. I completed World 3 however, and that walkthrough is covered 
here. Next update will obviously have World 4 included, though.

Version 0.4 (6/25/02): Since I've been busy lately, this is only a small 
update. It includes the first half of World 3 in the walkthrough. The rest of 
World 3, as well as World 4 will be in the following update.

Version 0.3 (6/23/02): This update includes a walkthrough for Vision 2.

Version 0.2 (6/22/02): The first version of this FAQ. All of Vision 1 is 
complete with this update.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Klonoa's adventure takes him onto the B&W Wonderswan portable console. Like 
the games on Playstation, PS2, and Gameboy Advance, this title provides the 
player with lots of fun! I don't quite understand the whole story since I 
cannot fully read Japanese, but it seems that it has to do with restoring 
stolen paintings. Klonoa goes around in many side-view stages collecting 
gems, stars, keys, and other various items, and fighting the occasional boss. 
If you like platformers, you'll love this game, so I recommend downloading or 
buying this one soon!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Start: Start/pause game, bring up submenu

X-Pad: Move Klonoa, move cursor on menu screens (on horizontal screen)

X1/X3: Jump, press repeatedly in air to flutter (on vertical screen)

X2/X4: Use yo-yo (on vertical screen)

Y-Pad: Move Klonoa, move cursor on menu screens (on vertical screen)

A: Use yo-yo (on horizontal screen)

B: Jump, press again to double jump (hold to flutter) (on horizontal screen)

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Overview -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Items
-----

As far as item-collecting goes in this game, there are plenty of little 
things around for you to pick up along the way. In every single level, there 
are 30 gems you can collect. They are optional, but it wouldn't be too hard 
to collect as many as you can. A ruby is basically a large gem, and when you 
collect one, it counts as 5 gems. As for Star Fragments, there are 3 of those 
scattered in each level. These ARE required, since you need all 3 to open the 
star door of the level, which you use to exit the stage. Finally, there are 
hearts and extra lives, which you can pick up to regain a lost heart from 
damage, or gain an extra life, respectively.


Grabbing/Throwing/Double Jumping
--------------------------------

This technique alone is the most commonly used move in this entire game by 
far. Klonoa uses the yo-yo to pick up an enemy, box, etc., then a couple of 
things can be done. If you just press A again after holding something, you 
will throw it forward, and it will continue moving until it hits a wall or 
some other obstacle. When in the air, press A and the enemy/box will drop 
straight down below you. Finally, there is the all-necessary double jump. 
After you jump once, press B again and the enemy/box will drop, and you 
will be propelled upward for another jump. That is quite useful for reaching 
higher ledges, hence it is the most commonly used ability in this game!


Switches
--------

There are two types of switches you will encounter throughout this game. The 
first type are regular switches, usually identified by a single diamond-like 
thing attached to it. Use your yo-yo to hit it, causing something to happen, 
like a door opening or a puzzle being solved. There are also timed switches, 
which have 4 diamond-like objects attached to it. Yo-yo it and it'll stay 
activated temporarily. These are usually used to open a door, so you'll have 
to come up with a strategy to hit the switch and get through the door 
(sometimes far away) in time.


Wind Chutes
-----------

One of the more common, and sometimes more annoying, obstacles in this game 
are the wind chutes. They are columns of wind that blow upward as soon as you 
move across one. You go straight up to the top of wherever it blows to, 
causing you to miss other ledges and items to the sides on the way up. If you 
place a box on a wind chute, or carry one as you walk across a wind chute, 
it'll block the wind from blowing you upward. Carrying an enemy over a wind 
chute does not have the same effect; you'll still be blown upward with it. 
There are also wire-screen platforms found in certain levels. If one is above 
a wind chute, the wind goes right through it, continuing to send anything in 
its path upward. Place a block on such a platform to block the wind, 
obviously.


Time Bombs/Cracked Blocks/Arrow Blocks
--------------------------------------

In the later half of the game, there are enemies that I call time bombs 
wandering around. If you grab one, a timer starts to count down (usually from 
7 to 0, but there are some that go from 13 to 0). After the timer is done, 
the enemy explodes like a bomb. If you place this enemy next to a large 
cracked block, it'll clear the block out of your way when it explodes. There 
are also arrow blocks found in certain levels. When you detonate one with a 
time bomb, the blast moves in the direction that the arrow on the block was 
pointing. That can help if you're trying to activate switches/destroy cracked 
blocks, but can't get the time bomb directly to it.


Warp Zones
----------

In the last world of the game, there are doorways known as warp zones in 
certain levels. Those doorways have Roman numerals above them, ranging from 
"I" to "VI". If you go into a "I" warp, you'll reappear in the other "I" warp 
situated elsewhere in the stage. It's best if you keep track of where the 
different warps are; that way you'll be able to travel quickly and easily 
through those last several stages.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Walkthrough  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

=======
World 1
=======

Vision 1-1
----------

From the start, head right and collect the 2 gems in your path. Read the sign 
to learn about picking up enemies. Try this out with the nearby enemy if you 
like, then walk to the right and grab another gem (3), and jump up a few 
ledges. Head right at the top and grab more gems in the air (6), then make 
your way to another sign. Read to learn about double jumping with an enemy in 
tow. Demonstrate this new technique with the enemy in front of you to reach 
the high ledge. From there, grab a couple more gems (8) and continue down and 
right. Jump up and grab the 2 gems you can reach (10), then double jump with 
an enemy to reach the ruby, which equals 5 gems (15). Grab another enemy and 
use it to jump to the high ledge up ahead, then take the heart if you need it 
and continue to the next area.

In this second area, follow the path to yet another sign. Read it to learn 
about collecting the 3 star fragments in order to open a star door, which is 
the exit to the level. Double jump with the nearby enemy to reach the first 
fragment above the sign. Continue down the path and into the following area. 
There, go right and pick up the first creature you come across, then double 
jump with it to reach 2 gems in the air (17). Head right some more and grab 
the next enemy and double jump to a ledge in mid-air. Pick up the gems there 
(20), then drop down to the area below the ledge, and collect 2 more gems 
(22), a heart, and a star fragment. Double jump to the right ledge with the 
enemy down there with you, and continue to a sign. Read to learn about your 
ability to flutter in mid-air.

Now, continue right and double jump with the enemy you come across to reach 
the high ledge. Head right and grab the flying enemy, then jump the spike 
pits and collect 3 loose gems (25) and a ruby (30). Double jump to the ledge 
at the end to get the final star fragment. Now, go back left and drop down to 
the lower area. From there, proceed right to the star door which will open 
for you, so push Up in the doorway and exit this level!


Vision 1-2
----------

Here, start by going east to the first enemy you encounter. Grab it, then 
continue to the high wall. Jump, then drop the enemy to get leverage on the 
jump, collecting 2 gems and landing on the ledge. Jump up and take the ruby 
you missed (7). Continue east and grab the next enemy, and use it to reach 
the ledge with the circle key. Take it, then drop back down and open the door 
with the key, and go east into the next area. There, go east past the star 
door and grab the enemy you see. You'll come a a split in the path where you 
can go up on the high ledge or stay on the bottom one. Use the enemy you're 
holding to reach the higher ledge and unlock that circle door, then continue 
into the next area.

In this area, go east and grab the flying enemy you come across. Then, go 
back west and jump onto the low part of the platform above you. Jump to the 
top of it, then jump and fly east. Drop down onto the line of 3 gems (10) and 
a heart. Then, take the enemy again when it reappears and get back to the top 
of that platform. Double jump to the high ledge to the right and take the 
triangle key, then continue eastward. Take another gem (11) and the ruby on 
the upper ledge at the end (16). From there, double jump to the left and grab 
the first star fragment. Now, go back left into the previous area. There, go 
left and drop down to the lower area and go right, using the triangle key to 
enter the next area.

Here, go right and slide down the vine to the bottom, then continue to the 
right. Grab the enemy walking under the low platform, then get out from under 
it and use the enemy to jump onto that platform. Go right to the far end of 
that platform and grab the other enemy on the upper ledge when it comes 
within your range. Use it to reach the 2 gems and the next star fragment on 
the low platform you're on (18). After that, go right and jump onto that 
platform. Grab 3 more gems (21) and use the enemy to reach the higher ledge. 
Continue right and take 3 more gems (24), as well as the X key. Now, make 
your way all the way to the left side of this large room. Unlock the X door 
and enter that room.

Here, go left and down the steps to the bottom. Grab the flying enemy there 
and use it to double jump to the high platform above. Grab the enemy on that 
platform and double jump upward to get 4 gems (28). Land on the platform and 
when the enemy reappears, use it to jump to the left ledge, where you'll get 
the last 2 gems (30), as well as the final star fragment. From here, go back 
right into the previous room. There, jump up and climb up the vine to the 
top, then go left into the following area. In there, continue left to the 
star door, then go through it to exit the level.


Vision 1-3
----------

This is the very first level that requires you to flip your Wonderswan unit 
vertically. After you get yourself situated with that, start the level by 
going right and grabbing the flying enemy. Use it to double jump to the high 
ledge to the right. Grab the walking enemy there and double jump to grab the 
first 2 gems against the wall in the air. When the enemy reappears, use it to 
double jump to the high ledge to the left. Go left to another enemy, then 
grab it and jump to the upper-right ledge. Continue right and use the next 
enemy to reach the next ledge. When it reappears, grab it again and use it to 
double jump to the top ledge to the left. Go left and drop down the pit at 
the end to get a heart, the circle key, and a gem (3). Next, grab the flying 
enemy to the right and get to the upper-right ledge. From there, go right and 
unlock the circle door, and continue into the next area.

In this next area, use the flying enemy in the beginning to jump over the 
door to the right. Then, continue up the steps and over the star door, then 
down the steps to the end. Unlock the circle door and enter that next room. 
There, use the flying enemy to double jump over the spike pit to the higher 
ledge, grabbing 2 gems (5) along the way. Go right and unlock another circle 
door, then in that small room, take the triangle key, a heart, and 2 more 
gems (7). Go back out of there and grab the flying enemy to reach the ledge 
above you. Take the second flying enemy and use it to double jump left to a 
ruby (12). Get back up to that high ledge again and take the 2 gems (14), 
then grab the flying enemy to the left once again. Go all the way right and 
jump onto the higher ledge, then double jump left onto the higher platform.

From there, go left and up to the middle area. Grab the flying enemy to the 
right and jump to the 2 gems floating up and to the right (16). Also, use the 
flying enemy when it reappears to take the first star fragment floating above 
the middle area. Then, grab the left flying enemy and double jump to 2 more 
gems in the air to the left (18). Land, then go left into the next area. 
There, grab the heart in the air and walk to the left, taking the 3 gems 
along the path (21). At the edge of the platform, double jump and fly to the 
left ledge on the other side. Take 2 more gems there (23) as well as an extra 
life medallion, then go back right to the edge. Drop down, grabbing 2 gems 
(25) and the second star fragment. Go left and drop down to another ledge 
below. Unlock the triangle door to the right and continue right and down, 
grabbing 3 more gems in the air (28). From there, continue left into the next 
area.

In here, grab the flying enemy and use it to reach the final star fragment, 
as well as the final 2 gems (30). Now, go back to the previous room. Jump up 
the ledges to the upper area, then grab the flying enemy you eventually reach 
and use it to reach the upper-right ledge. Open the star door and exit the 
level through there.


Vision 1-4
----------

To start this (horizontal) level off, head all the way right until you come 
to 2 enemies. Grab one and use it to reach the higher ledge, then continue to 
the right. Read the sign to learn about the boxes, such as the one in front 
of you. Use it to reach the 3 gems in the air, then as a stepping stone to 
reach the upper ledge to the right. Go up the steps to the top, then climb 
the ladder into the area above. There, jump on the moving platform when it 
comes down, and ride it to the top. Double jump to the left platform where 
you'll find 2 gems (5). Continue onward to reach a box and some enemies. 
Throw the box to the left, then pick up an enemy. Jump on the box where it 
sits against the wall in the corner, then double jump with the enemy to reach 
3 gems (8) and the higher ledge. Then, climb up the ladder into the next 
area.

Next, pick up the box and throw it to the left so it passes under the low 
passage below the platform in the air. Go through there as well and grab the 
box at the other side, then use it to reach the upper ledge to the left. Go 
left and down the steps, then down a ladder into another room. There, go riht 
and drop into a pit area with 2 boxes. Take the left box and jump onto the 
right one, then jump and throw the box you're carrying to the left ledge. 
Then, drop down and take the other box on the floor, and use it to jump to 
the ledge where you threw the first box. Take that box again and throw it to 
the right ledge. Drop back down to where the other box is, and use it to jump 
to the right ledge. Jump onto the box you threw there and collect the circle 
key and a ruby (13). Now, drop back down and take the other box to jump onto 
the left ledge, and continue up the ladder to the previous area.

Back in this area, go up and all the way right until you reach the box. Pick 
it up and carry it to the right, then use it to double jump to the higher 
ledge. Open the circle door and advance into that area of the room. There, 
jump onto the vines and jump between them, collecting a star fragment, 2 
loose gems (15), and a ruby (20). Then, continue right through the room to 
reach a platform that moves up and down. Jump aboard and ride it to the top, 
then jump off the left side and collect 3 gems on the way down (23). Drop 
back down and grab the box in the lower-right corner, then jump onto the 
moving platform again. Ride it to the top, then throw the box to the right 
ledge. Jump onto the vine, then onto the ledge, and grab 2 more gems (25) and 
the second star fragment. Then, get back down to the bottom area and down the 
ladder into another area.

In this area, go left and drop down to the lower area of the room. Grab the 
walking enemy nearby and jump onto the moving platform by the star door. At 
the top, double jump with the enemy to the left and grab the ruby (30). Now, 
head all the way right and down the ladder into the next area. In there, go 
left and down and grab the box. Then, get back onto a higher ledge and jump 
to the moving platform. When it stops at the left, use the box to double jump 
to the ledge with the final star fragment. Now, go back right and up to the 
previous area. There, go left and open the star door, then leave here!


Vision 1-5
----------

To start this level, go right and pick up the box, then throw it to the 
right. Then, jump up and grab a flying enemy. Go right and jump on the box, 
then double jump with the enemy's help to reach the ledge with 2 gems. Drop 
down to the area on the right side, then pick up the next box and throw it 
right through the line of flying enemies. Go past the cleared path and 
continue into the next area. There, head right and read the sign you come 
across describing the winged balls above. Try out this new ability by using 
the yo-yo on the flying ball, and jumping from it to the 2 gems floating 
above it (4). Continue right and use the next series of winged balls to grab 
3 more gems (7). Go right and use the last winged ball to reach the right 
ledge, and continue to the following area.

In here, go right and use the first winged ball to get to the right ledge, 
then use the second one to reach the upper-left one. Grab the walking enemy 
there and use it to jump to the upper-right ledge. Grab the flying enemy 
against the right wall and use it to double jump upward, grabbing 2 gems (9). 
Next, grab onto the winged ball that moves up and down. Ride it to the top of 
the area, then jump onto the ledge and go into the next area.

In this area, go left and you'll come to another moving winged ball. Grab 
onto it when it comes to the right side, then ride it to the left. There are 
2 gems floating overhead along the way (11), so jump up at them as you pass, 
then grab back onto the winged ball to continue. At the other side, go left 
and grab the winged ball above the spike pit. Jump up and take the next gem 
(12), then jump onto the ledge to the left. Jump and grab onto the winged 
ball and jump to the next one, grabbing the gem in the air (13). Jump from 
the second winged ball to the left ledge, grabbing another gem (14). Then, 
continue left into the next area.

There, jump up and grab the heart, then slide down the vine and drop to the 
very bottom area. Pick up the box and jump to the higher ledges to the right, 
then throw the box to the ledge to the left of the winged ball. Grab the 
winged ball and jump onto that ledge, then jump onto the box and go onto the 
top ledge. Slide down the vine and go left at the bottom to another box. Pick 
it up, then double jump with it below the area with the items above; that way 
the box drops right below it. Continue left to find another box, then pick it 
up and bring it back to where you dropped the first one. Jump on the first 
box and double jump to the high area. Grab onto the winged ball and grab 3 
gems (16) and a star fragment.

Now, go left to a row of winged balls in the air. Grab onto each one to reach 
the ledge to the left, where you'll find one more gem (17). Drop down to the 
lower area and climb down the ladder to reach the next area. In that area, 
climb down to the bottom area and go right to pick up the circle key. Go 
through the flippers and grab the extra life medallion, then drop down to the 
lower area. Go left and unlock the circle door, but before continuing into 
that area, go right and pick up a box. Throw it to the left through the door, 
then follow it to the left. Grab the box when you catch up to it, then jump 
to the highest ledge and double jump to the right, where you'll collect 
another star fragment and 3 gems (20). Then, go left into the next area.

In this next area, go left and down to the bottom area, then go left and pick 
up the box. Wait for the moving platform to come down, then ride it to the 
top area with the box in tow. At the top, double jump to the left ledge and 
continue left, grabbing 3 more gems (23). Then, go left and onto the next 
moving platform. Now, continue up and left, then up and right to the next 
regular ledge by means of jumping from winged ball to winged ball. Once on 
that high ledge, go right and jump onto some more winged balls. You'll see 2 
of them moving back and forth: one to the right and one to the left. Grab 
onto the left-moving one, then at the end of its path, jump onto the winged 
ball above to reach a ruby (28).

Now, drop back down and go all the way right into the next room. Take the 
triangle key there, then go back to the previous room. Go left and grab onto 
the winged balls, then jump/grab onto the right-moving one. When you get to 
the far right, jump onto the ledge and go right. Unlock the triangle door and 
go into the next room. Take the 2 gems (30) and the final star fragment 
there, and go through the flippers, then drop down to the lower area. Go left 
and open the star door, then exit this level.


Vision 1-6
----------

From the start, grab onto the winged balls moving up and down at either side 
of the middle area. Ride one to the top, then jump onto the ledge and wait 
for the left one to come down. Grab onto that one, then jump off at the top. 
Climb up the vine, then jump onto the left ledge and continue up and left 
into the next area. There, go ahead and read the sign to learn about the 
switches. Hit the one above the sign with your yo-yo to open the door nearby. 
Go through and continue left to a box; pick it up and use it to double jump 
to the next switch further left. Hit the switch to open the next door, then 
throw the box left through the doorway and then go through yourself. Use the 
box to reach the higher ledge, then continue left and grab the flying enemy 
you see. Drop down to the bottom-left ledge by the spike pit, and throw the 
enemy right at the switch to trigger it. Climb back up the rope to reach the 
higher ledge, then grab the flying enemy that reappears and use it to reach 
the ledge where the door opened. Go right and take the circle key.

Now, make your way all the way right to the start of this room, and go back 
into the first area of the level. Drop all the way down there to the bottom 
area by the star fragment you cannot reach yet, then go right and unlock the 
circle door and enter that room. Go right and grab the enemy, then use it to 
double jump to the 2 gems in the air up ahead. Continue right to a winged 
ball; use it to reach the right ledge. Go right and read the sign to learn 
about the timed switches. Trigger the one above you to open the door ahead 
temporarily. So, go through and grab the first star fragment.

Next, go down the rope in this part of the room, then at the bottom, go left 
and grab the 4 gems (6) along the way. At the end, take the heart and 
triangle key, and go through the flippers. Then, continue left into the first 
room again. Go left and ride the winged balls up to the ledge with the star 
door. From there, ride the left one upward to the next ledge. There, go left 
and open the triangle door, then continue to the next area. In there, go left 
and grab/throw the enemy walking along to get it out of your way, and take 
the 2 gems as well (8). Then, climb up the rope to the upper ledge and grab 
the enemy there. Jump over the left pit with it, but double jump while over 
the pit so the enemy drops straight down, hitting the timed switch. Then, 
quickly go through the left door. Head left and take the heart if you need 
it, then drop down and continue right. Take 3 more gems (11) and grab onto 
the rope hanging at the end.

From there, grab onto the winged balls to make it over to the right ledge. 
Take the flying enemy there and throw it left towards the timed switch. Go 
through the open door quickly and take the X key. Climb up the rope and take 
the second star fragment, along with 2 gems (13). Then, drop down to the 
bottom area and go right, unlock the X door, and continue to the next room. 
Back in the first area, go right and ride the winged balls to the first ledge 
above. This time, wait for the right winged ball to come down, then grab on 
and ride it to the top. Jump onto that ledge and go right; unlock the X door 
and enter that area.

In this room, go right to the sign to read about the 3 switches here. You 
must hit them in the right order to open the door to the right. Use the box 
to reach/hit the high middle one. Then, hit the left one, and finally the 
right one to open the door. Continue right, grab 2 gems (15) and a heart, 
then go into the next area. Here, go right and pick up the box, then jump 
onto the moving platform. Ride it just a tad bit upward, then double jump up 
and left to a ruby (20). Drop down and get the box again, then ride the 
platform to the ledge at the top. Take the 2 gems there (22), then throw the 
box to the left so it drops onto the timed switch. After that, climb the rope 
and go through the door into the next area.

There, go left and pick up the box, then jump onto the moving platform. Ride 
it to the top, then jump so you're directly over the 3 switches. Jump again 
to drop the box straight down, hitting all switches to open the door. Take 
the box and go onto the platform once more, then jump onto the left ledge and 
throw the box through the open doorway. Go left into the other area of the 
room, then pick up the box and use it to double jump up to 2 more gems (24). 
Then, continue to the next area.

In this next area, go left and onto the first rope. Jump off the left side 
and collect 3 gems (27). Go left and drop down to another ledge, and take the 
box there. Go right and jump to get the last 3 gems (30). Continue left and 
all the way downward with the box in your grasp. At the very bottom, use the 
box to double jump to the last star fragment. Now, use a winged ball to reach 
the upper ledge, then open the star door and leave here.


=======
World 2
=======

Vision 2-1
----------

To start off this level, head right and read the sign to learn about the wind 
chutes, such as the one in front of you. Try it out by stepping into the 
wind, and it'll send you to the ceiling above. Go right and drop, then 
continue right to another wind chute. Ride it upward, then drop onto the 
upper ledge to the right. Drop down to the ground level, then go back left to 
get 3 gems. Then, continue right to the next area. There, go right and up 
another wind chute to a ledge with a box. Read the sign to learn about how to 
weigh yourself down on wind chutes when holding boxes. Try it, then go right 
with the box in tow. Go up the steps and grab a heart in the air, then sink 
into the next wind chute. Go left at the bottom to find 5 gems (8). Now, go 
right to the end, then drop the box and grab onto the flying enemy above. 
It'll fly upward while carrying you, so head onto the upper left ledge. Once 
there, go up the ladder to the next area.

Here, go left and up the wind chute. Grab onto the winged ball to the right 
when it comes close, then hold on as it moves to the right. Jump/grab onto 
the next one, then jump off onto the ledge at the right end. Grab the ruby 
(13), then go back left. This time, get onto the left ledge and from there, 
continue left until you can drop down to a lower area with another wind chute 
to the left of that. Go right and grab the enemy you see, then go left and up 
the wind chute. At the top, drop down along the left side of it to the 
ground, then continue left. Grab 3 gems in the air (16), then use the enemy 
you're holding to reach the high ledge with a star fragment on it.

Now, ride the wind chute up to the top, then jump onto the left ledge and 
continue in that direction. Go left and climb downward on the vine. At the 
bottom, go left to the next area. Head left and pick up the enemy you pass 
along the way. Go left to a sign and read to learn about throwing enemies 
while riding wind chutes. Demonstrate that by going in the chute and throwing 
the enemy left to hit the timed switch along the way. Ride the wind to the 
ceiling, then drop down to the right ledge and go through the open door to 
get a star fragment. Drop off the right side to get a heart and 3 gems (19).

Next, grab the enemy on the ground again and ride the wind chute. At the top, 
hold Right and drop onto the right ledge. Then, use the enemy to double jump 
to the next ledge. Continue right and onto a box covering a wind chute, and 
take the ruby (24) in the alcove. Then, go left and grab the flying enemy to 
start drifting upward. Direct it to a high ledge to the left. Land there and 
take 3 gems (27), then double jump right to that ledge again. Now, pick up 
the box and throw it aside, and ride the wind chute to the ceiling. Continue 
right and down the steps into the next area.

In this area, go right and read the sign to see how moving platforms above 
block the wind chute's current. Go right and wait until the moving platform 
is above the wind chute, then ride it up to the platform. Go right and onto 
the ledge, then take the heart there. Go right and drop down to the lower 
area, and read the sign to learn about the wire-screen floor and how the wind 
chutes go right through them. Go right and take the box, then drop it on the 
wind to block it from going up. Now, go up and use the winged balls to reach 
the ledge with the final star fragment. Drop back down and take the box, and 
head right. Double jump to the high ledge and go right to get the last 3 gems 
(30). At the end of the path, open the star door and clear this level!


Vision 2-2
----------

From the start, go up and right into the following area. In the second room, 
go right and take the first 5 gems. Pick up the box and head right, then jump 
and throw it to the wind chute on the next ledge, blocking it. Then, grab 
onto the winged ball and reach the next ledge, and go right to find a star 
fragment. Go up the ladder to the next area. In here, go left and up the wind 
chute to the top area. Go all the way left and ride the moving platform at 
the end upward to the top, then jump onto the right ledge. Pick up the box 
and throw it directly to the right, so it passes the star fragment and drops 
on the wind chute over there. Double jump right onto the ledge and take the 
second star fragment, then drop to where the box dropped. Go right and take 
the circle key. Then, pick up the box and throw it to the right, then ride 
the wind chute to the upper ledge. Jump left and drop down to get 3 gems (8), 
then go left and drop down again to get 3 more gems (11). Go left and ride 
the moving platform to the top, then go left and open the circle door, and 
continue to the next area.

In the next room, go left and pick up the first enemy you come across. Then, 
head left and jump from ledge to ledge, collecting the gems in the air along 
the way (16). Be quick though, since these ledges disappear after being 
landed on. At the end, take the second star fragment and double jump with the 
enemy to get the triangle key in the upper corner. Then, go left and open the 
triangle door, and go into that room. There, pick up the box and throw it to 
the left ledge. Then, jump down the right side of the pit to get 5 gems (21). 
Now, go up the wind chute and land on the left ledge. Hit the timed switch, 
then pick up the box and sink down the wind chute to the bottom. Then, go 
left and toss the box away, then go through the open door. At the other side, 
take the X key. Ride up the wind chute to the top, then go right and through 
the flippers. Drop back down to the bottom of the room, then go right and 
through the X door into the next area.

There, climb up the vine and jump onto the upper ledge to the right. Go right 
and jump to grab a heart if needed, otherwise continue past a wind chute and 
drop to a ledge with 3 gems on it (24). Drop down to the one below for 3 more 
gems (27), and the bottom one for 3 more (30). Now, go up the chute to the 
top, then go back left to the vine. Drop down to the lower area, and go right 
until you come to the wind chute covered by a box. Pick up the box and go up 
a few steps to the left. Throw the box right onto the ledge in mid-air. Go up 
the wind chute to the right, then get onto the ledge with the box. Pick up 
the box and jump onto the wind chute from the top. Sink downward and land on 
the ledge with the star door. Open up and get out of here.


Vision 2-3
----------

In this vertical level, go right and ride up the wind chute to the top of the 
room. There, go right and use the winged ball to reach the higher ledge. Go 
right and take 3 gems, then go into the next area. Here, go right and jump 
onto the ledge in the air past the up-and-down moving platform. Pick up the 
box and jump onto the wire-screen floor and drop the box onto it. Drop down 
to the lower area and go right into the wind chute; ride it to the top of the 
room. Hold Right and get ready to jump to the right when the wire-screen 
floor with the box moves in front of the chute, allowing you to land on that 
ledge. Take the star fragment and head right, then jump down and take 5 gems 
(8). Climb down the vine to the bottom, then go left and down the ladder to 
the next area.

In this area, go left and jump onto the moving platform when it comes up. Use 
it to jump to the left ledge, where you'll find a box; pick it up. This next 
part may take you a few tries, but please try to follow what I'm saying and 
you'll get through. With the box, run and jump off the ledge towards the 
left. You'll jump into 2 water chutes next to each other. When you're above 
the left chute, hit the jump button again to drop the box on the left chute, 
while propelling you onto that ledge. Take the circle key and continue left, 
then drop down to get 8 gems (16). At the bottom, grab onto the winged ball 
and ride it up to a ledge with an extra life medallion. Then, drop down and 
go right, grabbing onto another winged ball and using it to jump over the 
spike pit. Continue right and go over spike pits, while you collect 3 gems 
(19) along the way.

Now, go right into the wind chute. There are 3 switches to the right on the 
way up; hit each one to open the door at the top. Go left through it and grab 
the flying enemy to fly upward. Direct it to the left to grab the second star 
fragment. Drop back down and grab the enemy when it reappears, then fly onto 
the upper right ledge. Then, go right and up the ladder to the next area. 
Here, go left and unlock one circle door, then go across and unlock the other 
one. Take the heart in the air and go up the first wind chute. Jump left and 
grab onto the first winged ball. Jump between this one and the other winged 
ball, collecting the 3 gems in between them (22). Continue left and up 
another wind chute, then drop down the left side and head into another area.

In this next area, go left and jump to grab 3 gems overhead (25). Continue to 
the wind chute, then ride it up and jump to the right ledge. Hit the first 
switch, then quickly jump into the wind and ride it to the top. Jump out on 
the left side and hit the second high switch, then the bottom one to open the 
door. Get back onto the right ledge and take the final star fragment in the 
small room. Now, continue left through this room until you come to another 
wind chute. Ride that to the top, then go right and open a circle door. Take 
the box in there and throw it to the left out of that room. Go pick it up, 
then go left and jump over the chute, and grab the ruby (30). Then, sink down 
the wind chute with the box weighing you down. At the bottom, go left and 
open the star door and leave here.


Vision 2-4
----------

Starting off here, go right and grab the enemy you see. You'll also see a new 
obstacle to avoid: moving spike tops. Wait for the one in front of you to 
move upward, then pass under and use the enemy you're holding to double jump 
to the next ledge. Continue right and jump to grab 2 gems in the air, then 
drop down to a lower area with a spike ball moving above. Wait until it moves 
to the left side, then grab an enemy and run right and double jump to the 
next higher ledge. Go right and jump over the spike top to get another gem 
(3), and then continue over some spike pits while avoiding the spike tops 
overhead. Go right some more until you reach a regular enemy. Pick it up and 
go right while avoiding popping the enemy on a spike top. At the end, double 
jump to the high ledge to get a heart and 3 gems (6), then drop down and go 
right to the next area.

In the second area, go left and down the rope, then head left to a box. Pick 
it up and throw it to the right end of the room. Go right and jump on it to 
reach the ledge with a star fragment on it. Drop back down to the lower area 
again, pick up the box, and head left. Jump over the spike top and jump to 
the slightly higher platform, then double jump with help from the box to 
reach the high ledge. Go left and jump to get 3 gems (9). Continue to find 3 
more gems in the air (12); jump to collect them while avoiding the spike top 
floating across them. Pick up the nearby box and throw it left, then use it 
to reach the upper ledge where you'll find 2 gems (14) and a heart. After 
that, go left into the next area.

There, go left and read the sign to learn about placing boxes on up-and-down 
spike tops to weigh them down. Go all the way left and grab the box, then 
double jump over the spike top to drop the box onto it. Ride it downward, 
then when you can squeeze through, grab the box and drop to the lower area. 
Go left and grab the 2 gems in the air (16), then double jump to the ledge 
with the second star fragment on it. Take the box and go right, then sink the 
spike top like you did the first one here. After you weigh it down, take the 
box again and go down and to the left. Go over the wind chute with the box in 
hand, then take the extra life medallion, and 3 gems (19). Now, go all the 
way right and through the bottom-right doorway to the next area.

In this area, go right and onto the wind chute, making sure to get the 2 gems 
on the way up (21), although you can't miss them anyway. Go right on the 
ledge and read the sign to learn about throwing boxes at spike tops, causing 
the box to stop and drop upon impact. Take the box and go down, then when the 
spike top moves all the way to the right, throw the box at it so it drops 
down to the middle area below. Drop down there and use the box to reach the 
upper ledges with the final star fragment, and 2 gems (23). Then, go right to 
find 2 winged balls moving up and down. Grab the first one, then the second 
one to reach the top of this area. Jump to the right wall and drop for 3 gems 
(26). At the bottom, go into the next area to the right.

Here, use the winged balls to reach the upper ledge, then take the box you 
find and throw it to the right when the spike top is in the path of you and 
the box. Go right and down to take the box, then go right and use it to 
double jump to the final 4 gems (30). Use the box once more to double jump to 
the right ledge, then open the star door and exit here!


Vision 2-5
----------

To start this vertical level off, head left a bit, jumping to reach the first 
2 gems in the air. Grab the box on the ground between the gems, then go left 
to find a bunch of spike tops. Wait until the very first one on the floor 
moves towards the left, then drop the box on it to keep it in place. Next, go 
back right and grab the enemy you passed, and bring it back left. Jump from 
the inclined ledge to the box atop the spike top, then double jump to the 
high ledge for 3 more gems (5). Now, go back down and take the box and get it 
to the left side of the area. Use it to jump to the left ledge, then take the 
heart in the air and continue left. Go down the ladder to the next area.

Go down the rope, then to the right. Take the box and wait for the spike top 
ahead to move upward, then throw the box at the right wall. Go right and past 
the box, and read the sign to learn of some information I don't understand 
since I'm not fluent in Japanese. Turn around and take the box, and go right, 
double jumping to the upper ledge. Go down the vine and continue down and 
left through here. Pass the wind chute and continue along the bottom path. 
Jump over the lower spike top and take the 2 gems above you as you progress 
(7). Go left and into the open area above you, then grab the flying enemy to 
the right to fly upward. Get all 3 gems (10) there, then go left into the 
next area.

Here, go left and onto the lowest ledge, then jump up the disappearing 
platforms and grab ahold on the winged ball. Wait for the flying enemy to 
start moving to the left, then jump and grab it to fly. Hold Left all the way 
to get the bottom row of 3 gems (13). Get back to the winged ball and grab 
the flying enemy again, this time going upward to find a star fragment. Go 
back down and fly with the enemy up and left one last time to get 4 more gems 
(17). On the upper ledge, grab the winged ball and get to the highest area, 
then go right into the following room.

In this next room, go right and grab the heart and circle key. Now, backtrack 
a couple rooms to the room with the wind chute and spike tops. There, go all 
the way right and unlock the circle door, then follow the bottom path right 
into another area. There, go right and drop the box on the spike top to sink 
it downward. Leave the box on it, and head to the right once in the lower 
area. Go up the wind chute to the top, then go left and grab an enemy 
wandering around. Go left and down the pit where the spike top was, and land 
on the box. Double jump left and up to reach the ruby and a loose gem (23). 
Then, take the box off the spike top so you can progress, then throw it all 
the way to the right for later. Go right and up the wind chute again to the 
top, then go left and grab the enemy again. Use it to double jump to the high 
ledge with a heart and a box on it.

Take the box and head back right to the wind chute you came up from. Drop 
down the chute a little, and go right to the first ledge you pass. Jump to 
get the triangle key, then continue down the chute. Veer to the left to grab 
3 additional gems on the way down (26). At the bottom, walk right with the 
second box and jump onto where the first one is. From there, double jump to 
the upper ledge, then use the winged ball to reach the high ledge with a star 
fragment on it. Now, go back down and left, then up the wind chute. At the 
top, go left and down, then left to the next area.

There, continue left and up the wind chute further ahead. Jump to the right 
ledge and open the triangle door, and claim the last 4 gems there (30). Go 
back left and up the wind chute, then go go the left ledge and open that door 
as well. Go left and up the wind chute, then onto the right ledge. Take the 
box to the right and throw it left under the low platform above. Go back left 
and take the box on the ledge where you threw it, and sink down the chute. Go 
right and double jump with the box to reach the ledge with the final star 
fragment. Now, go left and up the wind chute, then grab the winged ball and 
jump to the last ledge. Open the star door and leave this level.


Vision 2-6
----------

In this level, go right and pick up the box, then drop it below the middle 
platform that the spike top floats above. Go right and grab an enemy, then go 
back and jump onto the box, then double jump to reach 2 gems. Go down and 
take the box, then go right and down and throw it to the right. Grab the 
enemy that reappears and use it up ahead to double jump to 3 more gems (5). 
Continue right to where the box stopped, and jump on it to reach a heart. 
Pick up the box and go right/double jump to 3 more gems (8). Then, go right 
and take the box with you, and double jump to the high ledge. Continue into 
the next area from there.

Here, go right and up the wind chute, then go onto the left ledge. Take the 
box and go right to the edge of the platform. When the spike top is going 
down to the ground, throw it right so it stays in the middle area. Go onto 
that ledge and pick up the box, then drop it at the right edge of that 
platform. Next, go left and drop down to the lower area again, and pick up 
the enemy. Go back up and right, past the spike top when it goes upward. Jump 
onto the box and double jump with the enemy to reach the next ledge. From 
there, go right and down the rope, then go either left to get a heart, or 
right to the next area.

In the next area, go right and use the flying enemy to reach the high ledge 
above. Land there and take the next flying enemy upward, grabbing 4 gems on 
the way (12). Go left and use the regular enemy to double jump to the next 
ledge, then do the same on the following ledge. On the next one, fly up and 
right with the flying enemy to reach the higher ledge. Continue upward by 
double jumping via the enemies until you reach the very top, then head left 
to the next area. Here, go left and up the 2 wind chutes. Get onto the ledge 
after the second one, then wait for the spike top next to the chute to get 
out of your way. Then, drop down and left to the next part of the room, where 
you'll find 2 gems and an extra life medallion (14).

Now, go back right and up the wind chute, then onto the ledge to the left. 
Grab the winged ball when it comes down, and ride it upward, then jump onto 
the following ledge. Go right and up the rope, then onto the left ledge. Go 
up the steps to the top one before the wind chutes, then jump to the right 
ledge and grab the box sitting there. Go back left and drop the box on the 
left chute, then go up the right one and land on the upper left ledge. Drop 
down the left side of that ledge to get a heart and 2 gems (16). At the 
bottom, take the box and put it on the right chute, then ride the first one 
upward. Go right and drop into the ledge with the ruby (21). Drop down to the 
box, then get to the ledge below and right of it, then take the box off the 
chute. Jump with it to the right ledge, and onto the following one. Throw it 
right onto the spike top to send it sinking. When you can, jump aboard and 
hit the 3 switches on the way to open the door below. Go into that room to 
get a star fragment.

Now, go left and up the ledges, then jump to the right ledge at the top. Go 
right and up the rope, then right into the next area. There, go right and up 
the small wind chute, and onto the left ledge. Take the box and carry it down 
and right to avoid being blown upward by the chute. Go right and take the 5 
gems in the air (26), and the star fragment at the far end. Then, bring the 
box back to the left. Double jump while over the chute to drop the box on it, 
then get onto the left ledge. Grab the enemy and double jump to the right 
ledge. Go right across the spike pit by grabbing/jumping from the winged 
ball, then take the 2 gems (28) and the circle key at the other side.

After that, go back left and down, then left to the previous room. There, go 
left and downward past the switches. Go into the room you opened up with the 
switches before, then unlock the circle door and enter that room. Go right 
and take the box, then drop it to the left of the spike top. Continue right 
and up, and take the enemy you find. Bring it left without popping it on the 
spike top, then jump on the box and double jump to the high ledge. Take the 2 
gems there (30), then the final star fragment. Go back down and right, and up 
a couple ledges. Grab an enemy and double jump to the last ledge, where 
you'll open the star door and leave this level!


=======
World 3
=======

Vision 3-1
----------
</pre><pre id="faqspan-2">
Start off this level by heading right, jumping to grab 3 gems on the way. 
Read the sign to learn about hitting switches to make blocks come out/recede 
from the walls. Hit the switch above to make a block appear in front of you, 
then jump on it and continue right through here. Jump to get 2 more gems (5) 
and continue right until you come to a flying enemy against a wall. Grab it, 
then throw it through the narrow passage to the right to hit the switch. Jump 
across the 2 blocks that come out, and continue onward to another switch. Hit 
it and use the 2 blocks that appear as stepping stones to reach the high 
ledge with the star fragment on it. Get back down and hit the switch to 
remove the blocks, then go down the ladder to the next area.

Here, go left and drop down to a lower area. Go right and jump to hit the 
switch, then grab the enemy to the left. Go right and jump from the bottom 
step to the right, and double jump onto the block in the air. Go right and 
get the second star fragment. Now, head back up the steps and to the left 
until you come to a rope. Drop down to the area below, then head right. Jump 
over the spike top when it comes near, and make your way right, jumping when 
you can to collect 5 gems in the air (10). Then, go left and hit the switch 
and jump the block to the next platform. Go left and hit the switch to remove 
the blocks, allowing the spike tops to move down and out of your way. Get to 
the other side, then hit the switch when the spike tops are all above where 
the blocks appear, trapping them on top. Drop down and go right to get 2 gems 
(12) and 2 hearts. Then, go left and down the ladder to the next area.

In this area, go down and hit the switch to remove the blocks ahead of you. 
Go right and drop down the area below, and hit the switch by the wind chute 
to make a block appear above it, blocking the wind. Grab the flying enemy to 
the left and fly upward in that large room to get a ruby in the upper left 
corner (17). Then, get the enemy again and fly to an upper right ledge to get 
the last star fragment. Next, go back down to the bottom area and head right. 
Grab the enemy and use it to double jump to the higher ledge. Go right and 
down the other side, then take the box and continue right and down to another 
ledge below. Go left and down, then right. Use the box to double jump to the 
ledge with one ruby on it (22). Then, drop down to the lower area and grab 
the other ruby below (27).

Now, go all the way left and up the rope at the end. At the top, jump off the 
left side and take the last 3 gems (30), and a heart on the way down. Then, 
go up the rope and head right. Go through the wind chute and grab the enemy 
further right. Take it and jump/throw it at the switch to the left. Grab the 
enemy when it reappears and use it to double jump. Continue right and jump to 
the next ledge, then continue to the star door and exit this stage.


Vision 3-2
----------

Here in this vertical level, start by going left all the way to the next 
area. There, go left and grab the enemy you see, then go back right and throw 
it at the switch to make blocks appear as steps to the left. Go left and grab 
the enemy when it reappears, then go left and up the block steps. Go left and 
double jump over the pit, dropping the enemy on the switch below. Continue 
left and into the following area. In the next area, go left and up the first 
wind chute, then at the top, jump right into the second one. At the very top 
of the room, jump onto the high right ledge and go into that room.

There, go right and hit the switch to shrink the blocks in front of you. 
Then, jump the pit and continue right to a flying enemy. Grab it and use it 
to double jump to the next ledge, then continue onward. Grab 3 gems and 
continue to the next area. There, take the heart and the first star fragment, 
then go back left to the previous room. Head left until you come to that 
flying enemy again, and carry it to the left. When you reach a passage you 
can't fit through with the enemy, throw it left at the switch to make blocks 
appear there. Now, go back right and double jump with the enemy, and you'll 
see a box. Take it and go back left, and throw it at the block wall to make 
it drop to the area below. Then, go left and drop into that pit as well. 
Carry the box to the right and you'll see a high moving platform with some 
gems. Double jump with help from the box to reach that platform, then grab 
the 5 gems as you move to the right (8). Go right to the next room.

In this center room again, go right and take the heart and a ruby (13). Go 
right through the flippers, then drop all the way to the bottom of the room. 
Then, head right and over the star door, and into the following area. There, 
go all the way right to the very end, then go into the next room. Go right 
and grab the flying enemy to fly upward, making sure to grab 4 gems on the 
way up (17). Land on the upper ledge and go left to the next room. There, 
pass the first switch and you'll find a box you can pick up, so do so. Wait 
until the moving platform below comes all the way to the right and stops, 
then double jump so the box drops onto it. Grab the gem in the air (18) and 
land on the first large block. As the moving platform heads back left, it'll 
trigger all the switches, making the block you're on disappear and the next 
one in the pattern appear. Cross the blocks in that fashion, grabbing 3 more 
gems in the air (21). At the other side, go left and into the next room. 
There, grab the heart and the second star fragment, then go through the 
flippers and into the main area.

Now, go left and climb up the rope until you reach another ledge to the right 
you can jump onto. Get onto that ledge and go right into the next area. Head 
all the way right through this room, and into the following one. In this last 
area, grab the flying enemy and float upward, grabbing 4 gems (25). Land on 
the upper ledge and go into the next room. Here, go left onto the first large 
block and you'll notice a flying enemy flying high above a switch below. The 
object here is to jump and grab the enemy, then jump again to drop the enemy 
on the switch, thus making the next block appear for you to land on. Use that 
strategy to get across the room, collecting 5 more gems along the way (30). 
At the end, go into the next room, where you'll find a heart and the final 
star fragment. Go through the flippers and drop to the bottom of the room. Go 
right and open the star door, then exit this level!


Vision 3-3
----------

Here, go right and up the rope, then jump onto the platform that disappears 
when you step on it to the left. Double jump across them and collect 3 gems 
in the air, then drop down and head back up the rope. From there, go right 
and up the ladder to the next area. There, go left and grab the flying enemy 
to start flying upward. Throw it at the switch to the right, then drop down 
and go right into the area previous blocked by a block. Continue all the way 
right and down to find 2 boxes. Take the first one, then jump onto the second 
one in the corner. Double jump up and grab the ruby (8).

Next, take one box and go left and up the steps. Then, jump and throw it 
right onto the right ledge. Go right and get the second box, then go back up 
to the top of those steps. Jump and throw the box to the right like you did 
with the first one, then quickly move left to the other side of the block 
outlines in the background. The box you threw will go right, drop, and hit a 
switch, making those blocks appear. Go up the steps they form and take the 
first star fragment at the top. After that, drop off the right edge of the 
platform and hit the switch below and to the right, causing all the blocks to 
the left to recede again. Head all the way left to where the flying enemy is, 
and use it to reach the upper ledge. There, continue up the steps and to the 
right, then down into the next area.

There, drop down to the ledge below to get a heart. Then, go right and drop 
down the pit next to the wind chute all the way to the bottom. From there, go 
left into the next area. In there, go left and grab an enemy, then go right 
and throw it at the switch to make the blocks appear. Then, go left and pick 
up the regular box you see, then drop it at the left edge of the platform. 
Grab the enemy nearby and jump on the box, then double jump with it to the 
high ledge to get 3 gems (11). Next, drop down to the previous ledge and take 
the box, and continue down to the bottom area. Go right and double jump over 
the spiked top, dropping the box on it. Then, go back up and left and take an 
enemy you find. Go right and jump onto the spike top/box stack, then double 
jump onto the high right ledge. Take the ruby there (16), then drop down to 
the area below. Go right and drop down by the wind chute, taking 3 gems on 
the way down (19). Then, go left and into the next area.

In this next area, hit the switch to remove the block in front of you, then 
go left and climb the rope to the top area. Go left and pick up the box you 
come across. Jump onto the left ledge and throw the box under the wall to the 
other side, then you go left and up the left wind chute. Take the box you 
threw, and throw it back to the right, triggering a switch that stops the 
left wind chute and turns on the right one. Jump up and hit the timed switch, 
then go right and up the other chute. Then, go onto the ledge with the 
temporarily open door, and take the second star fragment.

Now, go down and hit the switch below the platform to stop the right wind 
chute. Then, go all the way left and jump down the pit at the end to get 3 
gems (22). From there, go left to the next area. Here, go left and up the 
wind chute to the top area. Jump onto the ledge at the top and take the 
circle key and a heart. Then, go right to the next area. Unlock the circle 
door and continue right to unlock another one. Take 3 gems (25), then go left 
and up the rope. Go right and up the ladder to the next area. There, go left 
and unlock another circle door, then go in that room.

There, hit the switch to remove the blockage, then continue left and ride the 
wind chute to the top of the area. There, double jump right onto the top 
ledge with a switch on it. Go right and wait for the highest moving platform 
to pass under the large block that the regular box is sitting upon. Hit the 
switch to cause the big block to vanish, causing the small one to drop onto 
the moving platform. When it stops at the leftmost point, hit the switch 
again. When the platform moves right again, the box will drop downward to 
another large block. Do the same technique on the ledge just below you, to 
get the box dropped to a lower area. When that happens, go left and drop down 
to the low area, then go right and take the box. Bring it to the left and 
drop it on the wind chute, blocking the wind.

Then, go right and grab an enemy, then bring it left to the box you placed on 
the wind chute. Jump onto it and to the left ledge. Take the final star 
fragment there, then double jump to the next ledge and take the ruby (30). 
Now, go all the way right and into the previous room. Continue right and down 
the ladder into the following area. In the next room, go left and down the 
rope, then continue left to the star door. Open it and head out of here.


Vision 3-4
----------

From the start, go right and past the enemy to a sign explaining how to use 
the weight boxes. Push the one to the right wall, then go back and grab the 
enemy and use it to double jump from the weight box to the high ledge. From 
there, go right and push the weight right until it drops to a lower area. 
Take the first gem and continue to the next area. There, go down and right to 
the following area. In there, read the sign to learn about pushing weights 
onto floor switches to open doors. Try that out to the right by pushing the 
box left onto the switch. Jump onto the rope and climb it; jump to the right 
ledge and go right through the open door.

Continue right and onto a platform with a weight box on it. Push it right so 
it drops to the ground, then go left and down, then push it right so it 
covers the wind chute. Go right and push the second weight box off the other 
wind chute, then ride the chute to the top of the room. There, drop down the 
right side to get 2 gems (3) and a star fragment. Jump into the wind chute 
again, then fall along the left wall. When you're about to pass the ruby, 
jump left to get it (8). Go up the wind chute one more time, then onto the 
left ledge. Jump to get 3 more gems (11), then push the weight box left 
through all the enemies. At the end, continue to the next area.

In the next area, push the weight box onto the floor switch to open the door 
above. Jump from the box to the next ledge, jump there to get 2 gems (13). 
Use the winged ball to get the heart if you want. Then, jump to the left 
ledge and climb the rope to the top. From there, jump to the right ledge and 
continue to the top ledge by the right doorway. Jump and grab the enemy, then 
double jump to the high ledge with 2 more gems (15) and a ruby (20). After 
that, head right to the next area. Head right through here, pushing the 2 
weight boxes ahead until they drop, collecting 2 gems on the way (22). 
Continue to a switch; hit it to remove the large blocks above it. Climb the 
rope and jump to the left ledge at the top for 2 more gems (24). Drop down to 
the ledge below and push the weight box right onto the switch below, making 
the large block to the left disappear. Go left and up the steps, then climb 
down the rope and continue left into the next area.

There, go left and hit the switch, then go back to the room you just came 
from. Climb the rope and get onto the high ledge where the large block was 
before, and take the star fragment. Go left to the next area. This time, push 
the weight box left until it drops, then jump down to get 3 gems (27). Push 
the box left and use it to jump to the next ledge, then go left to another 
room. Head down and left until you come to the weight box and a regular box 
in the corner. Push the weight to the left, but stop when it reaches the edge 
(do not let it drop into the niche). Go back for the regular box, and throw 
it left so it hits the weight. Grab the block and jump onto the weight, then 
double jump to the high ledge, getting 3 gems (30) and the final star 
fragment. Now, go back right to the star door and head out of here!


Vision 3-5
----------

Here, head all the way right through this first area. You'll encounter a new 
enemy here as well: one that shoots 2 spiked balls ahead for you to avoid or 
be hit by. You can pick this guy up like any other, but be careful! Anyway, 
get to the far right area, then take the heart and go up the ladder to the 
next room. There, go left and up the 2 wind chutes to the top area. Get onto 
the left ledge and grab 2 gems and a heart. Now, drop all the way down to the 
bottom area, and go right to the following area. Go down and right until you 
come to a timed switch and a winged ball above. Wait until the enemy on the 
above ledge is done shooting, then use the winged ball and get onto the 
ledge. Grab the enemy, then go right and drop down. Push the weight box left 
until it drops into the niche, then go right by the door and throw the enemy 
left at the switch to open the door. Go in and take the circle key.

Next, go up the rope and grab the heart on the ledge at the top. Go left and 
jump down to get 3 gems (5), then head all the way left again. Grab the 
shooting enemy in the corner and use it to double jump to the high ledge, 
then go into the next room again. There, go ride the wind chutes to the top 
area, then get on the right ledge and open the circle door, and continue into 
that room. In that room, go right and up the rope to a higher ledge by a 
spiked top. Get onto the ledge above it with a weight box on it. Push the 
weight onto the top, then go left and down and take the regular box. Throw it 
at the spike top as it drops; that way it lands in an appropriate spot below. 
Drop down with it and carry it left, then double jump to the ledge with 2 
gems (7) and the triangle key.

Now, go back left to the previous room. Go left and drop down to the bottom 
area, then go into the first wind chute. Open the triangle door at the top to 
the left, then drop down inside to get 3 gems (10). Continue left to another 
wind chute. Ride it to the top, then drop down the left side to the ground, 
where you'll find 2 more gems (12) and a heart. Then, go up the wind chutes 
to reach the very top area. Land on the right ledge and take 2 gems (14) and 
a heart there. Next, get onto the ledge left of the wind chute. Hit the 
switch to remove the large block, then go left to the next area.

In this area, go left until you come to a weight box and a switch. Hit the 
switch, then push the weight all the way left until it drops. Hit the switch 
again to remove the large block, then push the weight left onto the floor 
switch. Then, use the winged ball to reach the high ledge with the open door, 
and go left through it. Go up the rope and avoid enemy fire, then jump onto 
the ledge at the top and take the heart on it. Go right and past the enemy, 
then push the weight box right until it drops. Push it all the way left, 
deflecting the onslaught of enemy shots. Kill the enemy ahead with the box, 
then drop it down to the area below. Drop down with it and continue right to 
another rope. Go down it and grab the heart and X key. Now, go down and right 
to the next area.

Here again, go right and drop to the very bottom area. There, go left and 
open the bottom X door (hit the switch if you need to, in case the large 
block prevents you from reaching the door). Go into that room. In that room, 
go left and down, then left to a regular box. Take it and bring it left until 
you reach a switch with a niche and a large block below it. Drop the box into 
the niche next to the large block, then go left to find a weight box. Push it 
all the way right until it drops onto the right floor switch. Go left and hit 
the switch in the air to remove the large block, then carry the box left and 
drop it on the other floor switch. Climb the rope at the end to the high 
ledge, then go right. Grab a heart, 4 gems (18), and the square key. Go 
through the flippers and into the previous room again.

There again, go right and up the wind chute until you are stopped by a large 
block above. Land on the left ledge and unlock the other X door, and enter 
that room. Go left and you'll see a moving platform overhead with a weight 
box on it. Wait until it reaches its leftmost point, then hit the switch to 
make the large blocks appear. When the weight box drops to the left, push it 
to the left (not to the wall just yet). Stop pushing when you get close 
enough so you have space to fit on the left side. Jump on the block and grab 
the enemy on the ledge. Double jump onto there to get 2 gems (20) and a star 
fragment. Grab the enemy again when it reappears, then go down and push the 
weight to the right so you're under the gem line high above. Jump on the box 
and use the enemy to jump to those 3 gems (23). Then, go back right and hit 
the switch, then continue to the next area.

There again, go right and drop down to the bottom area. Go left and down the 
ladder to the next area. There, grab the extra life medallion and another 
star fragment. Then, head all the way right and up the ladder to the next 
room. There, go left and up the wind chutes to the top, then drop down onto 
the second highest ledge to the right. Open the square door and enter that 
area.

In this next room, go right and across the 3 ropes, then onto the lower 
ledge. Go right and down, then push the weight box to the left just enough so 
you can jump out from below the left side of the platform above. Go left and 
gran the regular box, then go right and jump on the weight and to the upper 
ledge. Drop the box on that ledge, then go down and push the weight all the 
way to the right wall. After that, go back left and up the ropes, then onto 
the ledge where you left the regular box. Throw it right at the wall from 
there so it lands on the weight. Then, go right and take the box, jump onto 
the ledge to the left, then double jump to the high right ledge. Take 2 gems 
(25) and the last star fragment, then go right and drop down to the area 
below. Avoid the enemy fire and take the 5 gems (30), then take an enemy and 
double jump to the ropes above. Head all the way left to the previous room.

Back there, go left and down to the very bottom of the room. Then, go down 
the ladder to the last room. Go all the way left to the star door, then open 
it and exit here.


Vision 3-6
----------

Here, start by going all the way right, past the star door, into the second 
area. There, go right and into the tall wind chute. Ride it to the top, then 
grab the 2 gems on the platforms next to the chute. Then, go right and climb 
down the rope a little. Jump onto a ledge to the right to get 3 more gems 
(5). Then, go back left and up to the top, then go left into the next area. 
In this room, go up the rope and take the regular box on the right platform. 
Go left and drop it into the niche in the ground to the left (it's right 
below the left edge of the left platform). Then, push the weight left and 
drop it onto the ground below. Push it left and under the overpass, then jump 
to the higher ledge and grab the enemy there. Use it to double jump to a 
ledge up ahead with a ruby on it (10). Then, continue to the next room.

In this next room, go left and grab the enemy that appears, and use it to 
double jump to the ledge with the weight box on it. Push that weight right 
off the right side of the platform. Grab the enemy again and jump on the 
weight to the ledge, then onto the next ledge to the left. Double jump to the 
top of that ledge, then go left to a ledge with a regular box. Take it and 
drop down the gap to the right of the ledge you're currently on. Drop the box 
into the niche below, then push the weight nearby all the way left. Use it to 
reach the ledge with the circle key. Now, go back to the previous room.

There, make your way all the way right to the rope. Climb it and get onto the 
ledge with the weight box to the left. Push it left a little so it hangs off 
the left edge of the platform. Grab the regular box on the other ledge and 
jump on the weight, then double jump with the box to the high left ledge. Go 
left and grab onto the moving winged ball. Use it to jump to the flying enemy 
to your left. Fly upward with it over the spiked tops, then to the left until 
it disappears. Then, jump to the left and grab the next flying enemy to reach 
the ledge. Grab 4 gems (14) and a heart there. After that, go back down and 
right to the winged ball. Grab it and jump to the right ledge, then go right. 
Defeat the enemy and grab another heart, then head into that area.

There, go up the rope and take the upper right path to the next room. In the 
next room, you'll find 4 weight boxes on 4 ledges. Start by pushing both the 
top ones into the middle pit to the ground below. Drop down to the bottom-
right ledge and push the weight to the right until it drops. Go left to the 
weight stacked onto the first one that you pushed down into the niche. Push 
that one to the right until it drops into an empty spot further down. 
Finally, get onto the bottom-left ledge and push that weight right until it 
drops, then all the way to the right wall. Jump from it to the upper ledge, 
then continue right and get 3 gems (17), then head down the ladder to the 
room below.

Here, go down and left and grab the enemy; use it to jump to the next ledge. 
Go left and get 4 gems (21) and a heart, then continue to the next area. In 
there, grab the first star fragment and go through the flippers to the main 
room. Drop down to the ledge right below the one you were on, unlock the 
circle door, and enter that room. In that room, go all the way down the first 
rope, then head all the way right. Go up another rope to the top, then jump 
to the following rope to the right. Go to the top, then jump to the right to 
get a gem (22) and an extra life.

Head back down the ropes and to the first one at the opposite end of the 
room. Climb it just a little so you can jump to the winged ball. From there, 
grab the flying enemy and go upward, avoiding the moving spiked top. When the 
enemy pops, grab the second one to the left and fly onto the right ledge. 
Grab the single gem atop there (25), then drop down the pit to get 2 hearts 
and 4 gems (29). Now, go all the way left to the next area. There, grab the 
last gem (30) and another extra life. Go through the flippers to the main 
area, then get to the very top of the room. Push the weight box to the left 
until it drops to the ground far below. Drop down there and push it left, 
then jump to the upper ledge and unlock the other circle door and enter that 
room.

In this room, go up the rope and continue to the following room. Now in the 
next puzzle area, go left and down to a ledge with a weight box, then another 
one with 3 regular boxes. Take the regular boxes and throw them right onto 
the other ledge. Push the weight box left across them and drop it below. Take 
a regular box and drop it into the niche directly below the platform the 
boxes were originally found on. Push the weight to the left until you come to 
a small ledge above the ground. Stop pushing just when you reach it so you 
can use the weight to jump from the ground onto the platform. Go right and up 
to the second box and bring it back left to the weight. Jump onto that 
platform, then drop off the other side and drop the box into the second niche 
before the narrow underpass. Now, push the weight left a bit more and use it 
to reach the triangle key and another star fragment on the ledges. After 
that, go back to the large room with the wind chutes.

Go right and up the chutes a little. Grab onto the first winged ball to the 
right you come by, then climb down the rope to the right. Get to the bottom, 
then open the triangle door and enter that room. Go up the rope and right on 
the upper ledge into the final puzzle room here. Start by jumping to the 
right ledge with the 2 weight boxes. Push the right one into the niche above 
the large block, then push the second weight box off the right edge of the 
platform. Go left and drop off that side of this high area. Go right and push 
the third weight box into the niche below the large block. Push the second 
weight box right into the second niche. Go left and hit the switch to drop 
the final weight box. Push it right onto a floor switch, then enter the open 
room for the final star fragment.

Now, head back to the wind chute room again. Go into the chute and ride it 
up, then grab onto the first winged ball on the left side. Go onto the ledge 
to the left and into that room. Continue to the star door; open it and exit 
this level and World 3!


=======
World 4
=======

Vision 4-1
----------

To start this new world, head left to a sign to learn about the time bomb 
enemies. Grab the one in the air up ahead and the timer will start to count 
down. Double jump with it to grab 6 gems and a star fragment above and to the 
left. Continue left and grab the second one, and use it to reach the high 
ledge. Go left and jump for 3 more gems (9), then grab the regular enemy that 
appears above. Carry it left and read the sign to learn about bombs and 
cracked blocks. Double jump to the ledge with the time bomb enemy, and take 
the time bomb; drop it in front of the cracked block to the left. When it 
explodes, clearing the block, go into the next area.

There, grab the winged ball to reach the upper ledge, then go left and read 
the sign to learn about throwing the time bombs at walls and how they'll stop 
and drop to the ground below. Take the first time bomb and throw it left 
under the narrow passage, then go get it and continue left until you have to 
do it again. Throw it at the cracked wall at the end, then continue to a 
regular enemy. Use it to reach the winged ball flying above, then jump on the 
right ledge. Take 2 gems (11) and a heart, then jump to the upper left ledge 
with aid from the winged ball. Use the time bomb to double jump to the above 
winged balls. Get to the top ledge and climb the ladder to the next area.

In this next area, go right and grab the regular enemy walking along. Use it 
to double jump to the lone gem in the air to the left (12). Grab the flying 
time bomb enemy, then quickly jump with it to reach the star fragment above. 
Go right and grab the regular enemy, then jump to the time bomb; double jump 
with the time bomb again to get an extra life and a ruby (17). Throw the time 
bomb at the right wall, then go into that area. In there, go right and grab 
the time bomb. Use it to double jump to the extra life in the air, and the 
next ledge. Continue right and use the next one to reach the following ledge. 
Take a gem atop there (18), then jump right and get 3 more (21).

Now, continue right and past the regular enemy for now, until you come to 
another time bomb enemy. Take it and throw onto the left ledge with the 
cracked wall. When it explodes, go back and get the regular enemy, and use it 
to double jump there to get the last star fragment. Grab the time bomb when 
it reappears, then continue right past the now-open star door. Bomb the right 
wall, and enter the next room. There, go right and jump down to get 2 gems 
(23), then go left at the bottom to the bottom half of the previous room. Go 
left and use the time bomb to reach the 7 gems in the air (30), then go back 
to the room you were just in.

There again, stack the 2 boxes and grab the flying enemy. Double jump to the 
left ledge and enter that next area again. Go left to the star door and exit 
this level!


Vision 4-2
----------

Here, head right and grab the first time bomb enemy. Use it to jump to the 3 
gems in the air above. Toss the first one away and grab the second one, then 
go right and read the sign to learn about how the explosion can trigger 
switches. Double jump above the switch below the thin platform to get 2 gems 
(5), then drop the time bomb above the switch. When the door to the right 
opens due to the switch being hit, continue right and use the time bomb the 
cracked block, then enter that small alcove to get a ruby (10). Grab the time 
bomb again and double jump to the higher ledge. Grab the flying time bomb to 
the left, then jump and throw it to the right onto a cracked block. After it 
explodes, jump across the pit and head right into the next area.

In the following area, go right and read the sign to find out about the 
dangers of touching a spiked top with a time bomb in hand. Take the time bomb 
and throw it right under the spiked tops. Pick it up at the other end and 
jump to the next ledge, where you'll find 2 gems (12) and a heart. Go right 
and take the next time bomb, and continue while avoiding the next 2 spiked 
tops. Double jump to the next ledge and continue into the next area.

There, go all the way down the rope to the bottom area, and go right. Get 2 
more gems (14) and a heart, then jump back to the rope and onto the upper 
right ledge. Go right to the winged ball, and use it to reach/grab the flying 
time bomb enemy. Drop down to the ground and go left, then double jump to the 
upper ledge, dropping the time bomb above the cracked blocks below. Go all 
the way left, then down and right. Grab the star fragment at the end and 
climb down the ladder to the next area.

In this area, go left and down the rope, then head right. Grab the enemy and 
double jump to the right ledge, where you'll find an extra life medallion. Go 
left and up the rope, then head left on the top ledge. Go left and hit the 
timed switch, then go back right and down the rope. Go right and take the 
flying enemy and bring it left. Throw it through the door opening and hit the 
time bombs to trigger them all, breaking the cracked blocks at the top. Go up 
the rope and to the left, then grab the star fragment and continue to the 
next area.

There, go left and grab the first winged ball, then jump to the next ones 
when one moves towards you. Grab the single gem in the air (15), then jump to 
grab the flying enemy above. Use it to reach the 2 gems above it (17) and a 
ruby (22). Continue left with the winged balls and jump to reach another gem 
(23), then get onto the ledge at the end. Grab the time bomb enemy and throw 
it left under the single spiked top moving left and right. Pick it up and 
continue left, throwing it under the up-and-down-moving spiked tops. Double 
jump up to the winged balls, dropping the time bomb by the cracked block. Use 
the winged balls to reach the top ledge with 2 gems (25) and the ruby (30). 
Go back down and left through the now open passage, Climb the rope at the end 
and jump onto the right ledge with a heart on it. Drop down the right side 
and take the last star fragment, too. Go down the ladder to the area below.

Here, head all the way right, using the time bombs to jump to the higher 
ledges. At the very end, hit the timed switch, then make your way back left 
and up the winged balls. Go left and down, then right through the open door. 
Open the star door and you'll be out of this stage.


Vision 4-3
----------

In here, head right and down until you reach the time bomb enemy in the 
bottom middle area. Use it to jump to the 3 gems above, then onto the right 
ledge. Go up and right with the winged ball, then right through the wind 
chute onto the next ledge. Go right and drop down alongside the spiked tops, 
grabbing 2 gems (5). Go right and jump down to get 3 more (8). Go left and 
grab the heart, then take the time bomb enemy and go all the way right. 
Double jump to reach 2 more gems in the air (10). Now, carry the time bomb 
left and up the wind chute, then onto the right ledge. Jump and throw it 
right over the spiked tops so it drops on the other end of the platform. Go 
right and get it, then double jump to the upper right ledge. Go right into 
the next area from there.

There, go right and over the pit to the ledge with a box. Take it and drop 
down to the lower area, then head right and double jump to the upper ledge. 
Go right through the flippers and take the time bomb enemy; use it to jump to 
the 3 gems in the air along the right wall (13). Use the time bomb to double 
jump to the winged ball above. Jump up to the second one when it comes down, 
then onto the right ledge to get a star fragment. Get onto the left ledge and 
go left. Take the circle key, then go through the flippers and continue left 
to the previous room. Head left and up the wind chute, then continue to the 
area with the 2 circle doors. Open the left door and go down into the next 
room.

In this room, take the time bomb and bomb both cracked blocks on either side 
of the room (you'll have to blow up one side and use the time bomb when it 
reappears to do the other). After that, take the time bomb again and head to 
the right. Drop down the pit and throw the time bomb left, exploding another 
cracked block. Go up the wind chute and head all the way left. At the end, 
drop down to get 3 gems (16), then go right and grab the heart. Then, go down 
the ladder to the next area. There, go right and onto the far right ledge by 
jumping from the winged balls in the air. Grab 4 gems (20) and an extra life 
there, then drop down to the bottom of the room. Go right and ride up the 
wind chute to the top area. Go right and drop down to get 2 gems (22), then 
grab the time bomb enemy and ride the wind chute upward again. Throw it left 
so it drops onto/destroys a cracked block. Go into that room and take the 
box, and throw it through the flippers. Go through them yourself and throw 
the box right onto the wind chute. Pick up an enemy and double jump from the 
box onto the right ledge, then continue into the next area.

There, head right and take the heart in the air. Grab onto the winged ball up 
ahead and onto the ledge with the first shooting enemy. Grab it and double 
jump to the upper winged ball. Repeat the process to get to the top ledge, 
then head left to the triangle key. Now, go right and down, then left to the 
previous room. Wait for the enemy to walk down towards you, then use it to 
double jump to the upper ledge. Go up the wind chute to the top, then head 
right and down. Open the triangle door and enter that area. Open another 
triangle door inside, then go right and down the rope. Take the star fragment 
there and go back to the previous room.

There, head left and up the wind chute, then go left and down through the 
flippers. Continue left and use the enemy to double jump to the winged balls. 
Jump up by grabbing the winged balls to reach the top area, then go all the 
way left into a new area. In there, go left and drop down to the very bottom 
of the room. Grab the enemy and jump onto the wind chute to the left. At the 
top, go left and take an extra life. Drop down to the ledge below to get a 
ruby (27), then go down a little more to get the last 3 gems (30). Go right 
out of this small area, then make your way to the bottom right area of the 
room. Open the triangle door and enter the next area.

In there, go right and jump from the winged ball to the upper ledge. Pick up 
the box and move as far right as you can while holding the box. Wait for the 
time bomb to move to the left of your position (jump over it), then drop down 
the box. Take the time bomb and throw it right atop the box. Now, quickly 
move left and drop down to the lower area, and head right. Pick up the enemy 
and jump to the upper right ledge. Go through the door as soon as it opens 
because it closes FAST. Drop down again and head left to a time bomb enemy. 
Pick it up and carry it left while avoiding the spiked tops. Use it to double 
jump to a higher ledge, then use the regular enemy there to reach the winged 
ball. Get the final star fragment, then jump with the enemy and ride the wind 
chute up to the top area. Go right through the flippers, then open the star 
door and away you'll go!


Vision 4-4
----------

Start off here by grabbing the 2 hearts to your left if you need them; 
otherwise leave them in case you need health later on. Grab the time bomb and 
double jump to the upper ledge, then go into the left room. There, go left 
and grab a regular enemy, and use it to double jump to the ledge above 
further ahead. Use the winged ball to reach the following platform, then use 
the time bomb to advance to the top ledge, and go right into the next area. 
In that area, go all the way right, then up the ledges. Head left, then drop 
down the pit, grabbing the flying time bomb enemy as you drop. Carry it right 
and drop it off by the cracked block. After it explodes, go in and grab the 
circle key.

Next, go up onto the higher ledge and to the left. Go down and get the time 
bomb again, then get back up to that upper ledge. Jump over the pit and 
double jump to the higher ledge, then go left into the next area. Go left and 
down to the bottom area, then head left. Grab 2 gems and a heart, and 
continue left. Go through the flippers and down the second ladder to the room 
below. Make your way left and down the rope, then all the way right. Unlock a 
circle door, then grab an enemy and jump to the winged ball, then to the 
ledge with a time bomb. Take the time bomb, jump, and throw it to the left. 
It'll explode, hitting a cracked block on the other side of the flippers.

Now, get to the upper right ledge by using the time bomb that reappears, then 
go into the next area. Make your way to the upper left area of this next 
area, then into the following area to the left. There, go left and down, then 
to the left a bit more. Go down the first ladder this time into the room 
below. There, go down and to the left, grabbing 2 gems (4) and the triangle 
key. After that, go right and through the flippers, then drop to the bottom 
area. Head all the way left and up the rope, then unlock the triangle door in 
the upper left area. Go left and down, grab onto the winged ball, then jump 
to the ledge where you'll find a star fragment. Then, drop down to the bottom 
and go through the flippers to the right.

Head back right to the area with 2 regular enemies. Grab one and go up to the 
winged ball, and to the following ledge. Take the time bomb and drop down to 
the ground area again, and throw it left through the open circle door. Pick 
it up at the other side and double jump to the ledge with 3 more gems (7). 
Now, get back up to the time bomb ledge, and continue into the right room. Go 
up and left into the following room like you've done other times. In the 
following room, go left, down, and all the way left to a wind chute. Go up 
it, grabbing the time bomb on the way up. At the top, throw it right at the 
cracked block. After it explodes, enter that room and head right and down. 
Avoid the time bomb and the spiked top, and continue down and right. Grab 2 
gems (9) and an extra life. Go back left and open a triangle door, and take 2 
gems (11) and another extra life.

Now, grab the time bomb and double jump to the upper right ledge when the 
spiked top goes downward. Go right and get to the right side of the spiked 
top, then take the time bomb and get to the next ledge. Go right and take a 
heart before continuing to the next area. In that area, head to the right, 
jump over the pit, and continue to a triangle door, collecting 2 more gems 
(13) on the way. Open the triangle door and jump to grab a heart, then wait 
for the winged ball. Jump and grab onto it when it comes close, then jump 
while moving to avoid spiked tops. Climb the rope when you can jump to it, 
and go into the right room at the top.

In that room, go right and down to find a box and a time bomb. Throw the 
block to the right wall, then take the time bomb and jump to the right ledge. 
Throw it right through the low passage; follow it in, take it again, and drop 
it off next to the switch (do NOT throw it at the switch; you want to get out 
of there before the switch is triggered, or else you'll be blocked in). Go 
back left out of that passage, then after the time bomb explodes, making a 
large block appear, grab the time bomb below once more. Jump from the large 
block to the high ledge, thanks to the time bomb. Go right and get 2 gems 
(15), a star fragment, and the X key. Go back left and down to the bottom 
area. Throw the block left, and use the time bomb to jump to the left ledge. 
Then, continue out of this room.

Back here, go down and left to the pit I told you to jump over earlier. Drop 
down it this time, grabbing 2 gems (17). Head right and through a passage to 
an X door. Open it and continue to another area. This next area is a bit 
tricky, so follow this walkthrough and you'll get by. Go down and right to 
find 2 time bombs. Take one, drop it off on the above ledge next to the 
switch. Wait until it's at about 5-6 seconds left, then take the other time 
bomb and go up and left (so you're to the left of the block indentation in 
the background). When that block comes out, jump on it and the next ledge, 
then throw the time bomb right so it drops next to the switch. Now, quickly 
go up to the top area by means of winged balls, jump across the first block 
onto the middle ledge. If done correctly, the second time bomb will explode, 
allowing the second block to appear ahead of you. Jump across it and onto 
another platform.

From there, go left and grab 2 gems (19), then drop all the way down to get 
another star fragment. Now, go through the flippers, then back left to the 
previous room. There, go up the rope and head left, then down and left to the 
following room. Head left and down the rope to the bottom area, then head all 
the way right into another room. There, grab the winged ball and get to the 
upper ledge, then unlock the X door to the right and enter that area.

There, go down and right to the right wall. Hit the switch through the wall 
to open the doors above, letting out 4 time bombs. Use them to double jump to 
the above ledges, grabbing 2 sets of 2 gems in each of the small alcoves 
(23). Jump to the high middle area to get 4 more gems (27) and a heart if you 
can reach it. When you're done, drop down and throw a time bomb to the left, 
then double jump to the high ledge and exit here. In the next room, head left 
into the following room. There, continue left to the rope, then climb up to 
the top and climb the ladder into the following room above. Head all the way 
left and up the wind chute, then onto the right ledge. Go right and down to 
the ledge with the time bomb walking about.

On that ledge, take the time bomb and jump to the right ledge, over the 
spiked top when it goes down. Wait for the spiked top there to move to the 
right, then grab the time bomb up there and throw it to the left. Now, 
quickly head to the left and down to the ledge below. Take the time bomb and 
jump to the left ledge. Quickly pick up the time bomb you threw there and 
double jump up to get the 3 last gems (30). You may have to do that twice to 
get all three of them. Now, go left and down to the bottom area, then climb 
down the ladder to the next area. There, go left and down to the bottom, then 
head to the right. Open the star door and exit this complex stage!


Vision 4-5
----------

Here, head right and grab the time bomb enemy you come across. Go back left 
with it and double jump into an alcove above to get 2 gems.  Get rid of it 
before it explodes, then pick it up when a new one reappears, and head right. 
Read the sign to learn about the arrow blocks up ahead. Throw the time bomb 
at the arrow block, causing it and the cracked blocks it's pointing at to 
explode. Then, continue to the next area. There, grab the time bomb and drop 
it on the arrow block to the right. After it explodes, head right some more 
to a sign telling you that you can pick up arrow blocks. Take the one up 
ahead and use it to double jump to the high ledge to the left. Grab 5 gems 
(7) and an extra life. Drop back down and take the block to the right. Double 
jump to the upper ledge, then climb up to the next area.

In the next area, go left and jump on the winged ball when it comes downward. 
Ride it upward, then jump to the right ledge. Go right and grab the arrow 
block, then drop back down to the ground below and throw it left under the 
switch. Go back up to the upper right ledge and grab the time bomb, then 
bring it down and throw it at the arrow block. When it explodes, triggering 
the switch, use the winged ball to get onto the low right ledge. Enter that 
room to get a star fragment.

Next, head up with the winged ball to the top, then go left. Grab the regular 
enemy and use it double jump to the first disappearing platform. Jump left 
across the two of them, getting a gem from each (9). Jump to the flying enemy 
to the left, then quickly double jump to the left, grabbing a ruby (14) and 2 
more gems (16). Fall to the ground and go left to the next area. In that 
area, go left and grab the enemy; use it to jump to the next ledge above. 
Grab the arrow block and drop to the ground, then go left. Drop it below the 
cracked block in the air above you. Go back right and onto that ledge, then 
use the enemy there to get to the top ledge. Grab the time bomb and jump off 
the left edge, grabbing 3 gems on the way down (19). Go left and throw the 
bomb at the arrow block. After it explodes, dropping a left-pointing arrow 
block down, pick it up and throw it to the left wall. Go back right and up 
the ledges to the time bomb, and throw it at that arrow block. When it 
explodes, it'll hit the other arrow block, causing the cracked block above to 
explode. After that, go back right and grab a regular enemy, then bring it to 
the left and jump to the higher ledge. Grab the heart and continue to the 
following area.

Here, go left and grab the regular enemy, then jump to the ledge with a lone 
gem on it (20). Continue left to a time bomb enemy; pick it up and jump to 
the ledge with an extra life. Carry the time bomb to the right, and drop it 
on the arrow block covering a wind chute. After the wind chute is opened, 
ride it upward and take the second star fragment, plus 4 gems (24). Continue 
left and double jump with the new time bomb enemy to the next ledge, then 
continue to another area.

In the following area, go left over the wind chute and pick up the box you 
find. Move a little to the right and drop the box; that way when the time 
bomb on the upper ledge drops down and walks to the right, the box blocks its 
path and makes it move to the left instead. After that happens, wait for the 
time bomb to drop off the left edge of the platform, walk to the left wall on 
the next one, then start moving to the right. Pick up the box and throw it 
left through that passage (after the time bomb is moving to the right so you 
don't crush it). As soon as the time bomb drops off that right edge, throw 
the box to the right. When the time bomb is deterred to the left and drops 
off to the next platform, throw the box leftward. After the time bomb heads 
to the right and off that ledge, throw the box right to the very bottom area. 
As soon as the time bomb starts moving to the left past the floor switch, 
drop the box on the floor switch and follow the time bomb to the left. Pick 
it up and use it to jump to the high ledge at the end. Go up the wind chute, 
then the ladder to reach the next area.

There, head right and pick up the right-pointing arrow block. Use it to 
double jump to the ledge above, so you can claim 3 gems (27). Go back down 
and take the arrow block, and head right. Move as far as you can with it, 
then throw it under the passage to the right wall. Then, use the flying enemy 
to jump to the right ledge, then use the winged ball to get to the top ledge. </pre><pre id="faqspan-3">
Go left through the flippers, and take the time bomb enemy. Go left and down, 
then to the right. Throw it at the arrow block, then after it all explodes, 
use the flying enemy to get to the right ledge again. Go right and drop down 
to the lower area, then go right. Pick up the time bomb and double jump to 
the ledge with the last star fragment on it.

Now, wait until that time bomb explodes, then go down and pick up the one 
that reappears. Throw it left, then use it to double jump to the high ledge. 
Use the winged ball to go higher, then jump to the right ledge. Grab 3 gems 
(30) and continue to the next area. In that area, go right and down, and pick 
up the regular box. Throw it directly to the right. Pick up the up-pointing 
arrow block and throw it where you threw the regular box. Now, go down and to 
the right side of the room. Go up the wind chute and grab the time bomb enemy 
on the right ledge. Go left and past the left-facing arrow block, and onto a 
lower left ledge with another arrow block. Drop the time bomb there to 
detonate that block. After it disappears, go back onto the previous ledge 
with the left-facing block, and put it where the up-facing one you just 
destroyed was. Go get the time bomb and leave it next to the block. After it 
explodes, go down and left, then up the rope. Jump right at the top onto the 
second ledge, and open the star door to leave this level.


Vision 4-6
----------

Starting off this vertical stage, head left and through the wind chute. 
Continue to the left and pick up the enemy you reach, then go back into the 
wind chute. Ride it to the top, then go left. Jump with the enemy to reach 
the winged ball; use that to reach the left ledge and continue into the next 
area. In the second room, go left and up the wind chute you encounter. At the 
top, go right and pick up the arrow block. Throw it left and let it sink down 
the wind chute, blocking it. Drop down to the bottom area and pick up one of 
the time bomb enemies. Drop it on the arrow block, then after it explodes, 
pick up the other time bomb and ride up the wind chute. At the top, throw it 
left and blow up the cracked block. After that, continue left and you'll find 
a time bomb with a spiked top flying closely overhead. When it's clear, grab 
the time bomb and jump to get a gem, then jump to the left ledge with it and 
enter that area.

In the next room, jump and grab the first flying enemy to go upward. Grab 3 
gems (4) and a heart, then land on the middle platform. Grab the second 
flying enemy and continue upward through the middle area. Jump to get the 
third flying enemy, and continue upward to get 3 more gems (7), then land on 
the ledge to the right. Go up the wind chute and jump to the winged balls. 
Jump to the left, grabbing onto the winged balls, then the flying enemy at 
the end. Fly up to the next ledge, then head right and pick up the regular 
enemy. Go right and use it to jump to the next ledge above. Go left and grab 
the shooting enemy when the coast is clear, and use it to jump to another 
ledge above you. From there, go into the wind chute and jump to the winged 
ball to the right. Get onto the next ledge and go right into the next area.

There, head right and onto the following platform, past the rope. Go right to 
find 2 up-pointing arrow blocks. Grab one, then go left and drop to the 
bottom of the room. Throw that block all the way right to the end of that 
alcove. Go back up the rope to the top, then go right to the other up-facing 
arrow block. Go left and drop down to the ledge below. Jump and throw that 
block to the right, so it's right below the switch. Go left and take the next 
up-facing block, and go right and down. Throw it to the right by the door, 
then take the right-facing block and throw it right next to that one. Now, go 
back left and down to the bottom area, and grab the flying time bomb. With 
it, go right and throw it at the first arrow block. It'll all explode, 
triggering a switch and opening the door. Go up to that ledge and through the 
door. Get the star fragment and a circle key.

Now, head left and up the rope to the top area again. Go right onto that 
ledge, and continue right to a ladder. Go up into the next room. There, go 
left and open the circle door, then jump onto the winged ball and jump onto 
the right ledge at the top of the ride. Go right and use the enemy to reach 
the following platform. Continue down, and grab the enemy to the left. Carry 
it right, then drop it and take the time bomb enemy. Throw it to the left so 
it hits the cracked block through the floor. After that, grab an enemy and 
jump to the right ledge. Grab 2 gems (9) and a heart, then go up with the 
winged ball to an upper ledge. Jump left to get 4 gems (13) and the extra 
life medallion there.

Next, go back down and left, and grab an enemy. Jump to the left ledge, then 
continue left and down the steps to another enemy. Take that and go right to 
the top ledge, then double jump to the higher ledge. Head left and grab the 
enemy/use it to jump to the winged ball above. From there, jump to the small 
disappearing platform to the right. Jump right to a rope, then jump to 
another rope, grabbing the lone gem in between (14). Jump to a right ledge 
with 2 more gems (16) and a heart. Now, head left and jump to the next winged 
ball, and ride it to the left. Jump onto that ledge and enter the next room.

In that room, go left and grab the first arrow block you pass. With it, jump 
down to the bottom area and throw it at the left wall. Take the time bomb 
enemy and place it next to that block. Go up the rope and head left to the 
other arrow block. Take it and go left and down, then stand by the right wall 
with the block overhead. After the time bomb explodes, the explosion will hit 
your block (not damaging you, thankfully), and the cracked block to the left. 
Now, go left and grab the flying enemy, and fly to the right. Grab 2 gems in 
the air (18), then drop back down, avoiding the spiked top if you can. Take 
the flying enemy when it reappears, then fly to the ledge above and enter the 
left room.

There, go left over the wind chute, then jump across the small platforms to 
the left. Collect 4 gems (22) and an extra life, then land on the ledge at 
the end. Wait until the flying time bomb below moves to the left, then jump 
and grab it, and drop it on the cracked block below and to the right. After 
it's cleared, drop into the area below and continue to the left. Ignore the 2 
doors for now and enter the following area. In there, go left and into 
another room.

In the last room, go all the way left and up the wind chute at the end. At 
the top, go right and pass the time bomb for now. Pick up the box and head 
down and right with it. Throw it under the spike-topped passage, and let the 
box sink the spiked top downward. Go left and down, then left and up the wind 
chute again. This time, take the time bomb and go down and right with it. 
Throw it where you threw the box. Go right and down to where it rests; take 
it and go left. Jump over the pit and drop off the time bomb by the cracked 
block. After it explodes, claim the star fragment. Now, go down and left and 
up the chute again. Grab the time bomb and use it to jump to the high ledge 
to the right. From there, enter the next room.

Head right across the 2 platforms, grabbing 2 gems (24) and a heart. Jump to 
the other side and enter the following area. There, go right and down, and 
hit the switch to open one of the doors. Go back up the rope and into the 
previous room. Go across the platforms, but this time, drop to the ones 
below. Grab each set of 2 gems above each platform, claiming 6 gems in all 
(30). At the bottom, go back into the left room and make your way to the top 
right area. Enter the room there so you're back at the top of the room with 
the platforms. Jump across them, then drop down and to the right. Land on a 
ledge and enter the room to find another switch. Hit it, then leave the room.

Now, drop down to the star door and go into the right area. There, head all 
the way right and up the wind chute at the end. Go left and across the 
platforms, then drop and grab the flying time bomb. Head down through the 
hole in the floor and continue leftward. Jump onto the ledge where the doors 
are now open, and take the last star fragment. Go back down and into the left 
room. Open the star door and this vision/world is done!


=======
World 5
=======

Vision 5-1
----------

In this first level of the new world, go left and up to get a ruby (5). Then, 
head down and right to a sign; read to learn about the warp zones. Try it out 
by entering the "I" warp zone to the right to reach the next area. There, go 
left and jump onto the first winged ball when it comes down. When it moves 
up, jump to the left to grab 3 gems (8). Get to the second winged ball, then 
onto the left ledge. Head left to another area. In there, go left and onto 
the winged ball, then to the ledge with the weight box. Push it off the right 
side of the platform, then left so it sits inside the flippers, keeping them 
open. Get back onto the above ledge and go left to a timed switch; hit it. Go 
right and push the weight back right (you'll make it through the other side 
of the flippers, too). Continue right through the open door and grab a star 
fragment, then if you can, go back left before the door closes (if not, go 
through the "II" warp and you'll be in the room to the right; you can make 
your way back here easily).

After that, go left through the flippers and continue to a wind chute. Go up 
it to the top, then walk to the right, picking up 4 gems along the path (12). 
At the end, grab the circle key and drop down, then go right to the previous 
room. Back there, go right to the first winged ball on the right side, and 
use it to reach the right ledge. Open the circle door and enter that area. 
There, go right and pick up the box, then continue right and you'll see a 
spiked top moving left and right. Wait until it moves towards the right, then 
jump and throw the box at it; that way it hits the spiked top and drops to 
the floor below, allowing you to pick it up on the other side of the wall. 
Use the box to reach the ledge to the right, then continue to the next area.

In that area, go up the wind chute to the top of the area. Go up the steps 
and into the left room. Go left and jump across all the platforms, grabbing 3 
gems on the way (15). At the far left side by the doorway, drop into the last 
pit to the bottom area. Head right and grab a heart, a ruby (20), and an 
extra life. Continue into the next room to the right. Grab the ruby you find 
(25) and step into the "III" warp zone. Where you reappear, go left and take 
the star fragment, then go left. Drop to the area below and head left to the 
room you just came from. This time, drop into the first pit and go right at 
the bottom into the previous room. Go right and take the last ruby (30), then 
go through the flippers and up the wind chute, then to the left to the next 
room again.

Now, head left across the platforms and continue into the following room. Go 
left and jump to the rope, then to the left ledge. Go into that area to the 
left. There, go left and double jump to the upper ledge to the left. Continue 
left to a box; take it and throw it right through the flipper doors. Go right 
after them and jump across the disappearing platform. Go right and take the 
box, and throw it back to the left. That way it drops down where the 
disappearing platform was. Go left and down, then take the box and head left. 
Drop down at the end, and throw the box to the right, along the path of 
shooting enemies. Follow the box to the right through the now-clear path. At 
the end, take the final star fragment.

From there, throw the box left and repeat the process to get out. When you 
get all the way out, double jump with the box to the upper ledge and continue 
right all the way to a door. Go into the previous room. Climb the rope there 
and head left at the top to the upper area of the room you were in. There, go 
left and double jump to the next ledge above the pit. Go left and down, and 
take the box. Throw it right through the flippers, then go right and take the 
box again. Jump to the next level platform to the right, then jump and throw 
the box leftward. Double jump to that platform and take the box, then throw 
it to the left again. Jump onto the winged ball and jump to the next ledge 
where the box should be sitting. Double jump with the box to the top ledge, 
then open the star door and be on your way out!


Vision 5-2
----------

In this vertical stage, go left into the next area. There, go up the wind 
chute, then at the top, drop down the left side to the bottom. Grab 5 gems 
and continue into the next area. Grab the enemy and double jump to the high 
ledge, and take the circle key there. Go back to the previous room. Head 
right and up the wind chute again, then at the top, double jump to the right 
ledge. Open the circle door and enter that area. Go right and jump over the 
pit for now, then continue right to a box. Take it and drop it just far 
enough away from the right wall so you can double jump to the right ledge. Do 
that and grab the flying enemy, then double jump with it from the box to the 
left ledge. Take the star fragment you find there.

Next, go down and get the box, then throw it left through the passage. Go 
left after it, then grab it and jump down the pit with it, grabbing 5 gems on 
the way down (10). At the bottom, throw the box to the right wall, then go 
right and grab the flying enemy. Jump on the box, then up to the high ledge. 
Hit the switch to make the large block recede. Now, go all the way left to 
the next area. There, go up the wind chute and to the left at the top. Grab 
the box that falls from above, then go right and sink down the wind chute 
with it on hand. At the bottom, go left and grab a ruby (15) and double jump 
to the upper ledge. Grab a heart and continue to the next area.

There, go left and up another wind chute to the top area. At the top, go 
right and take 5 gems in the air (20). Then, head all the way to the far left 
area. Drop down to a lower ledge with a box on it. Take the box and jump 
right across the disappearing platforms. Jump into the wind chute with the 
box in hand, then drop the box down the wind chute while you jump onto the 
right ledge. Take the second star fragment, then go down and left to the next 
area. Go left and up the wind chute as far as you can go for now. Drop down 
the left side and ignore the switch for now. Instead, take the time bomb 
enemy and go up the wind chute to the top. Drop off to the left, then double 
jump onto a high left ledge. Take the ruby (25), then drop back down and wait 
for the time bomb to explode/reappear.

After that, take the time bomb and drop it right next to the nearby switch. 
Go up the wind chute and jump to the right ledge, and wait for the large 
block above to disappear. When that happens, go right and hit the timed 
switch, then jump into the wind chute and go to the top ledge. Go right 
through the door and take the last star fragment. Grab the flying enemy and 
go up to the upper ledges. Go left and take 2 hearts and the X key. Continue 
to the end, then jump down and get 5 gems (30). At the bottom, go right and 
hit the switch again, then go up the wind chute. Drop down the right side and 
go right to the next room.

There, go right and up the wind chute to the top. Go onto the right ledge and 
unlock the X door, then enter that room. Go right and grab the triangle key 
on the ledge, then drop down the pit to the lower area. Head right and 
through the wind chute, then drop to the right and continue to the first room 
of the level. Go all the way right, then grab the flying enemy and jump to 
the right ledge. Hit the switch at the top to make the large block appear 
below. Now, go back left to the previous room. There, go up the wind chute, 
then drop down the left side and continue to the following room.

In that next area, go left and open the triangle door. Go left and through 
the flippers, then up the wind chute on the other side. At the top, go right 
into the next area. There, grab the box and use it to double jump to the high 
ledge to the right. Open the star door, then exit this level.


Vision 5-3
----------

In this next vertical stage, start by going all the way to the right. Pass 
the flying enemy and grab 3 gems, then continue to the next area. There, go 
right and pick up the box, then jump onto the up-and-down moving platform to 
the left. At the top, throw the box right so it falls on the spiked top. Jump 
onto it as it slowly goes downward, then as soon as you can, get onto the 
right ledge and pick up the box again. Use it to double jump to the right 
ledge, where you'll find the first star fragment. Drop down to the ledge 
below to find a heart, then go back to the first room.

Now, go left and use the flying enemy to float upward to the high ledge. Jump 
onto there and go up the ladder to the room above. There, go left to the 
flying enemy; grab it and fly to the left ledge, then climb to the following 
room. Continue right there and into yet another room. In that room, hit the 
switch to remove the large block ahead of you, then go into the actual room. 
Head right and pick up the arrow block, and drop it onto the wind chute. Go 
right and hit the switch to drop a weight box onto that. Push the weight 
aside, then grab the time bomb enemy nearby and use it to destroy the arrow 
block. Fly up the wind chute to the high ledge, where you'll find another 
star fragment.

After that, push the weight onto the wind chute, then hit the switch. Go all 
the way left to the previous room. Back there, go left to the flying enemy 
and use it to reach the right ledge. Climb into the next room. There, go 
right and pick up the box, and drop it slightly to the left. Continue and 
grab an enemy, then go back left and jump from the box to the high ledge. 
Pick up the ruby (8), then drop down and pick up the box again. Bring it all 
the way to the right. Before you drop into a lower area, throw it all the way 
to the right. Pick up an enemy and continue right; use it to jump to the high 
ledge up ahead. Jump the pit and grab the box, then jump down the pit, taking 
5 gems (13) on the way down. At the bottom, use the box to jump to the upper 
ledge and go into the "I" warp zone.

Where you end up, go left and take a ruby (18) and an extra life. Go left 
through the flippers and drop down to the lower area. Continue left and up 
the steps, taking 4 more gems (22), then enter the next area. There, take the 
enemy and double jump to the left, dropping the enemy on the switch, making 
the first block appear. Grab the next enemy that appears and jump to the 
right over the next switch, triggering the next block to appear. Do this 
until you reach the very top, then head onto the right ledge into the next 
room.

There, go right and take a heart and the last star fragment. Now, go back 
left to the previous room. There, go left and onto the top block, then drop 
onto the one directly below you. Take the enemy and get onto the next block 
up to the left. From there, jump to the left ledge and go the left. Drop down 
a long pit, taking the last 8 gems on the way (30). At the bottom, go right 
and into the "II" warp zone. When you appear in the next room, go right and 
open the star door and exit this level.


Vision 5-4
----------

In yet another vertically situated stage, grab the rubies to the left and to 
the right (10). Then, head right and into the "I" warp zone to the next area. 
There, go right and across the first rope, then continue to the right. Grab 7 
gems (17), then jump to the following platform. Take 3 more gems (20), but 
don't go into the "V" warp just yet. Go down the rope to the second ledge 
down and to the left. Push the weight box there to the right so it falls down 
to the bottom area. Push it left so it holds the flippers open, then go back 
to the above ledge and go left through the 2 wind chutes. At the end, go down 
and hit the timed switch. Go right and through the lower area of the 2 wind 
chutes, then push the weight through the flippers so you fit through. Go 
around and through the open door ahead to get the star fragment. Now, go up 
the winged ball to the top area, then go left and up the rope. At the top, go 
right and into the "V" warp zone.

In the next area, go left and up the wind chute, then drop down the left side 
of it. Go left and hit the switch to make blocks above appear/the one higher 
than those disappear. Grab the time bomb and drop it next to that same 
switch, then go up the wind chute and go left, dropping onto the 2 large 
blocks. After the switch is triggered and you drop, hit the second switch in 
the air to open the left door. Go left and into the "VI" warp zone to the 
next area.

Next, go left and down, and pick up the regular box. Carry it to the left 
until you reach 2 arrow blocks above a timed switch. Drop the block atop the 
middle of them, then grab the time bomb and place it next to the box. Go 
right by the closed door and wait for the bomb to go off, dropping the box on 
the switch. When that happens, quickly go through the door, and up the winged 
ball to get the second star fragment. Then, go through the flipper doors and 
head all the way left into the "III" warp zone.

From where you end up, go right and up the first wind chute. Drop down the 
right side and continue right into another wind chute. Go right from there 
past the enemy, and drop down to the floor below. Go left and take the box, 
and throw it to the right wall. Go left and up the wind chute again, then 
onto the right ledge. Grab the enemy and bring it to the right. Double jump 
with it from the box to the high ledge, where you'll find a ruby (25). Now, 
go all the way left and up the first wind chute. Jump to the left ledge and 
go into the "II" warp zone to reach the first room of the stage again.

From there, go right into the "I" warp, then continue to the "V" warp in the 
following room. In the room where you appear after taking the "V" warp, head 
left to the lower switch. Hit it (that way the 2 large blocks above are 
there), then go into the "VI" warp to the next area. There, grab the box 
shortly to the left, and use it to double jump to the left ledge you didn't 
reach before. There, go left and grab 5 gems (30), then go through the "IV" 
warp.

In the next room, go right and up the first wind chute. Drop down the right 
side to the ground, and continue right. Take the arrow block and drop it onto 
the second wind chute, blocking it for now. Grab the time bomb enemy, go up 
the other wind chute, then head right. Jump the pit, dropping the time bomb 
below onto the arrow block. Land on the right ledge, then hit the timed 
switch. Go left and up the second wind chute, which should be unblocked by 
the explosion by now. At the top, head through the door and take the final 
star fragment.

After that, go right and down the pit, then head all the way left. Go back 
through the "IV" warp zone, then in the next room, go right and drop down to 
the lower area. Go left and through the "III" warp to the following area. 
There, go right and up the wind chute, then onto the left ledge. Go through 
the "II" warp zone to the first area again. Take a time bomb and double jump 
to the middle platform with the star door. Open it and exit here.


Vision 5-5
----------

Here in this normal level, go all the way right to the next area. There, 
continue all the way right past the winged balls, into another room. In that 
third room, go right and pick up the enemy, and use it to jump to the upper 
ledge. Go right and hit the timed switch, then jump to the flying enemy. Head 
right by double jumping from enemy to enemy, being sure to take 2 rubies (10) 
on the way. At the right ledge, go in and take the circle key and a heart. 
Then, go right and open the circle door into the next area.

In there, go right and across the rope, and onto a platform with an arrow 
block and a single box. Take the arrow block and throw it to the right on the 
ledge next to the flippers. Take the box and throw it right so it drops down 
to the area below, then go down and grab 3 gems (13), then take the box 
again. Carry it right and drop it on the first wind chute. Go up the other 
one and land on the upper ledge, then go left. Take the time bomb and throw 
it through the flippers to destroy the arrow block. After that, throw the 3 
boxes on the ledge left through the flippers to the other ledge. Then, go 
left, down, then left and up the rope. Go right and down to the ledge with 
the 3 boxes. Take one box, then take another one and place it on top of the 
first one, but place it so half is hanging off the right side to form a step. 
Jump to the second box while holding the third box, then double jump to the 
high ledge to get a star fragment.

Now, drop off the ledge and take 2 more gems (15) and go left to the previous 
room. There, continue left through the next several rooms until you come to 
the very first room of the stage. Once there, go left and open the circle 
door, then enter a new area. Go left and grab the box, then ride the moving 
platform all the way up. At the top, go left and push the weight box to the 
left while holding the box; that way you don't blow upward. Drop the box and 
push the weight off the left edge. Drop down to where you pushed it, then 
push it left onto the spiked top so it weighs it down to the ledge below.

Next, go right and up the wind chute, then drop off the right side of it. Go 
right and up the moving platform again, then go left and take the box. Go 
right and down to the ground again, then head all the way to the left. Take 5 
gems (20) and stand on the leftmost ledge, then throw the box to the right. 
It'll land on that platform because the weight on the spiked top will make it 
drop there. Now, go back right and up the wind chute, then left to claim the 
box. Use it to double jump to the upper platform to the left, where you'll 
find another star fragment. After that, drop down again and head all the way 
right. Go up the moving platform to the top, then go right into the next 
room.

Head right and pick up the enemy, then grab 5 gems overhead (20). Drop down 
to the ledge directly below you. Go left and take 5 more gems (25), then go 
to the right edge of the platform. Double jump to the right with help from 
the enemy to reach the ledge, then go into the next room. There, go right and 
push the weight box onto the wind chute. Grab the flying enemy to the right 
and double jump from the weight to the left ledge, and take the triangle key 
you find. From there, go down and push the weight aside, and go up the wind 
chute. Jump onto the right ledge and grab the flying enemy. Use it to fly to 
the right ledge. Open the triangle door and enter that area.

In there, go right and hit the second switch to make the large block ahead 
disappear. Then, hit the timed switch and head right, then drop down to the 
lower area. Grab a time bomb and drop it onto the switch below. Go left and 
take the other time bomb, and throw it at the first one to quickly detonate 
it, activating the switch and removing the block to the left. Go through the 
door and take the last star fragment.

From here, go left into the next area. There, go left and through the 
flippers, then grab the flying enemy. Fly up and to the left, and land on 
that ledge. Go up the steps to the star door; open it and exit this stage.


Vision 5-6
----------

Here, start by going left and up the rope to the top. Jump to the right and 
ride the wind chute to the very top of the room. Then, jump onto the right 
ledge and continue to the next room. In there, go up the rope to a ledge with 
2 time bombs and a switch. Hit the switch, then grab a time bomb enemy and 
drop it off next to the switch. Wait until it's at about 4-3 on the timer, 
then grab the second time bomb and jump across the first block to the right, 
then onto the following platform. When the switch is first triggered, jump 
onto the second block and throw the time bomb you have back to the left. 
Continue to the right, then onto the last block when the switch is hit again. 
Jump to the last ledge to get the circle key and a heart. Now, drop down and 
open the circle door, then enter another area.

There, go right and drop down to the very bottom of the area, then go left to 
the next room. In that room, go left and grab 5 gems, then go back and take 
the flying enemy. Fly upward to the high ledge and ride the wind chute to the 
top area. Grab the triangle key, then drop down to the right and go into the 
right room. Back there, ride up the wind chute to the top, then jump onto the 
right ledge. Drop down to the first ledge below you; open the circle door and 
take 2 hearts and an extra life inside. Go down to the next ledge and open 
the triangle door there. Grab 5 gems inside (10), then go left and drop 
downward. Go into the wind chute, and grab onto a winged ball to the left to 
stop being pulled up. Head left into the room you were just in.

In there again, go all the way left and up the wind chute you come across. 
Head left on the platform, then drop down and move right. Take 5 gems (15), 
then go back left into another room. There again, go all the way left to the 
rope by the left wall. Climb up it to the top, then open the left circle door 
and enter that room.

There, go left and pick up the box covering the wind chute, then ride the 
moving platform at the end upward. Jump to the right ledge and look to the 
right; you'll see a moving platform going left and right. Wait until it stops 
at its leftmost point, then starts moving to the right. When it moves right, 
throw the box at it. Go right and up the wind chute, then to the right ledge. 
Wait until the platform below pushes the box over the wind chute, then hit 
the timed switch and jump to the left ledge. Continue left and through the 
door to get a star fragment. Now, drop down to the ground and head all the 
way right to the previous room.

From here, go right and up the wind chute to the top area. Then, head onto 
the left ledge, open the triangle door, and go in that room. There, go left 
and grab the box, then ride up the moving platform to the top area. Go left 
and push the weight box to the side. Drop the box and push the weight off the 
left side to the area below. Go right and throw the box to the right so it 
drops as well, then go left and down to the weight. Push it right so it sinks 
down the wind chute. Go down with it and head right to the box. Grab it, then 
go back left and push the weight to the left edge of the elevated platform 
it's sitting on. Jump and throw the box onto the upper ledge to the left.

Now, jump onto that ledge and go left, and pick up the box. Double jump to 
the next ledge and take the star fragment there. After that, go down and all 
the way right to the previous room. This time, go right and up the wind 
chute, then onto the right ledge. Grab the enemy, then go left and drop 
downward while holding the Right directional. As soon as you have the 
opening, jump to the right and grab the rope on the left side of the square 
door. Go up and grab the square key, then enter the right room.

In that room, go right and over the disappearing platform. Grab the box at 
the other side and use it to double jump to the middle platform above. Take 
the box there and throw it to the right wall. Go down and grab the other box, 
then jump onto the first box and double jump to the high ledge. Take the last 
star fragment you find up there.

This next part may be tricky, but please try to follow along with me. Drop 
down and throw one box all the way to the left by the doorway. Take the 
second box and walk as far left as you can, then drop it at the edge and get 
onto the middle platform above. Go left and take the first box, and throw it 
right at the other one on the edge so it sits on the disappearing platform. 
Go right and onto that platform, then jump back onto the left ledge, allowing 
the first box to drop below. When the platform reappears, jump on it again 
and grab the box on the ledge; that way you carry it down with you. As you 
fall, throw that box to the right into another segment of the room area. When 
you land below, take the other box and go right. Jump into the wind chute, 
then drop the box into the wind and land on the right ledge. Go right into 
that room and take the X key, then use the box to jump to the ruby (20).

Now, go back left and drop down where the wind chute was that you covered by 
dropping a box on it. At the bottom, go right and grab the flying enemy at 
the end. Fly up to the next ledge, then go up the wind chute. Open the X door 
and enter the small room to get another ruby (25). Go back down and to the 
right into the next room. In that room, go right and up the wind chute. Grab 
onto the SECOND winged ball to the right on the way upward. Jump onto the 
right ledge and open the square door. Grab 2 hearts and another extra life in 
there. Then, go left and drop to the bottom level. Open the X door and claim 
the last 5 gems inside (30).

From here, go left and into the wind chute again. Grab onto the winged ball 
to the left, then drop to the ground and continue into the left room again. 
There, continue all the way left. Go up a wind chute, then continue left and 
down, then left to another room. Here, go left and open the star door to exit 
the last level of this world!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Secrets/Tips and Tricks  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

================
Unlock EX Stages
================

To unlock the EX stages of the game, you must first complete all 5 regular 
worlds of the game.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. Copyright Notice -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright (c)2002-2006 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved. Please 
view the following URL to see the list of sites that are allowed to post my 
work:

http://www.freewebs.com/dbmfaqs/allowlist.html

This list is comprised of sites I know and trust well. If your site is not on 
the aforementioned list, you are not currently not allowed to post any of my 
files on your site. If you wish to acquire permission, feel free to email me 
(see the section below); permission may or may not granted at my discretion. 
Please respect my work and do not steal it or post it without my permission. 
I only want my most recent work to be available and I do not feel that can be 
achieved if others take from me without my knowledge or permission.

If you are writing a FAQ for this game as well, and would like to use some 
information, contact me and we'll talk. Please do not rip me off, as that is 
blatant plagiarism and such will not be tolerated.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Contact Information  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

As of this version, the file contains all the information I know to date. If 
it is a work in progress, give me time before bombarding me with emails about 
things being missing. All I ask is that you READ THE FAQ before emailing me, 
since that's what it's here for! Don't waste my time (and yours) by asking me 
for information obviously covered in the guide. If it's in reference to a 
side quest or item, chances are they can be found in another section besides 
the walkthrough, so check the appendices as well.

If you have any questions, comments, or things to add that are not already in 
this FAQ, feel free to email me. I usually do post submissions, credit given 
of course, so long as I feel they are relevant to the game in question. My 
email address is: dbmfaqs(at)gmail.com. Thanks for reading, and be sure to 
check out the rest of my work at this URL:

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=
