From Avid Gamer <avidgamer@blueriver.net>
 ---- Notice: To e-mail me, remove the 'e' from 'avidgamer' ----

Zelda: The Wand of Gamelon walkthrough (CD-I)
(Note: All items that you get or are given the first time, I put in all CAPS)
@ = Strike the Triforce with the sword
------------------------------------------------------
Go to Aru Ainu. Go all the way down, then right, killing all enemies as you
go and take the RUBIES they leave behind (if any). When you come to the tree,
go up. Go in the hut. Go down and kill the Dodongo (the rhino). Take the KEY
it leaves behind and go back outside. Go right and go into the last hut.
Strike the woman with your sword to talk to her. She'll give you the
GREEN SHROUD. @

Go to Sakado. Go right - as far as you can, killing all of the enemies as you
go. Go back to the left until you come to the first hut (far left). Go into
that hut (general store). Talk to the shopkeeper. Strike the Triforce and go
back to Sakado. Kill more enemies. Repeat this until you have enough rubies
to buy *at least* 1 BOMB, 1 LAMP OIL and 1 ROPE. Go in the general store and
buy as many as you can afford. Go back out and go right - to the last hut. Go
in it. Talk to the woman. Go back outside, back to the general store and
strike the Triforce again.

Go to Kobitan. Go up, then left, then down. Go left and follow the lower path
to the last house. Go into the house. Do the "duck-walk" to get next to the
enemies. Kill them and get the LANTERN. Go back outside and go into the
barn on the upper path. Once inside, walk to the right about 8 steps to get
away from the door and use the lantern. Kill the Batman wanna-be and use a
rope to get the KEY. Go back outside. Go down - into the first house. Talk to
the woman.

Go back to Sakado and buy more bombs, etc. (You will need a total of 11 bombs
minimum in your inventory) 

Go to Ahitaru. Go to the far right and select the bombs in your inventory
before you go in the cave. Use a bomb on the Gohma (giant crab). Go up. Go
out the opening. Climb to the top of the rocks and go right.  Jump over the
Gohma pit when you come to it (looks sort of like a volcano). Talk to the
woman. She gives you WATER OF LIFE. Go right and use 10 bombs on the boulder
that's blocking the fish's eye. Go in the eye. Talk to the fisherman and take
the KEY he leaves. @

Go back to Sakado. Go into the second house. Use the lantern when necessary.
Go up and go in the door. Kill all of the bats and take the POWER SWORD. Go
back outside. Go back into the last house. Go out the upper window. Go into
the first door to the right. Go through the other door. Go up and get the
ARPAGOS EGG. Go back outside. Go right - into the last building. Talk to
the blacksmith (a.k.a. the fisherman). Go back out, go left and into the
crypt (small opening marked with a cross). Use a bomb on the skull wall. Go
down the stairs. Go left as far as you can. Go up and get the KEY. Go back
outside and go into the church (huge double-doors to your right). Go up to
the top using ropes. Use the green shroud on Gibdo (the mummy). @

** (optional):
Go to Shutoy Lake. Stay at the far left-side of the screen and throw your
sword repeatedly (approx. 10 shots each) to kill the two Dodongos (rhinos)
and take the rubies. Go into the first hut. Go back out and kill them again.
Keep going in the hut, going back out and killing the Dodongos to get rubies
quickly whenever you need them. **

Go back to Kobitan. Go into the first house and talk to the woman again.
She'll trade you a FLUTE for the Arpagos egg. @

Go to Washubi Swamp. Go to the end of the swamp using ropes,bombs and riding
alligators (it's a long, hard trek!). Go into the house. Talk to Grimbo. @

Go to Hanyu Forest. Go right and go into the hole in the tree trunk at the
end. Work your way down to the lower-left corner as far down as you can get
and go right. Get the HANYU SPORE that's growing on the rock and jump up onto
the upper path.  Go right and talk to the woman. Go left and use a rope on
the limb that has a rope hanging from it already. Go right. @

Go back to Washubi Swamp for the last time and talk to Grimbo again. He'll
take your glove and the spore and convert your glove into a POWER GLOVE. @

Go to the Fairy Pool. Go left and climb the rocks. Go right and kill the
three witches (use a rope to get up to the last witch). Talk to the Fairies.
They'll give you a LIFE HEART, FAIRY DUST, and WATER OF LIFE. @

Go back to Sakado. Go back into the last house and talk to the woman again.
She'll take the fairy dust and make the purple MAGIC CLOAK for you.

Go to Gohiyan Ship. Go to the right as far as you can. Then go down and to
the right. Toss a bomb at Zola (the critter in the water spitting at you).
Ride the alligators over to the ship. Enter the hole in the side of the ship.
Go up to the door in the mast. Go in it. Go up as high as you can and get the
ARPAGOS FEATHER and the KEY. Go back down and out of the mast. Go right. Go
in the big steel door. Take the REFLECTING SHIELD. @

Go back to Hanyu Forest. Talk to the woman again. She'll take the feather
and change your green shroud into a MAGIC CAPE. @

Go to Tykogi Tower. Go up and talk to Impa. Go right. When you get to the
tower, use the power glove (or 10 bombs) on the boulder that's blocking
the door. Go in the door. Talk to the chef and take the KEY he leaves. Avoid
the Wall Masters (hands) whenever possible. Use a rope on the ledge above you
and keep going up until you reach the door. Go in the door. Defeat
Ironknuckle using the power glove. Take the KEY. Go in the red door. Talk to
Mayor Kravindish. Jump and cut the chains. He gives you the MAGIC LANTERN. @

Go to Dordung Cave. Go left as far as you can, climbing the trees when
necessary. Drop down and go into the cave (lower-left corner). Go up using
ropes and use a bomb or your sword on Gleeok. Take the HEAT CRYSTAL. @

Go back to Sakado. Go into the third house (previously locked). Talk to the
chef. He'll give you a LOAF OF BREAD. Exit the house and go talk to the
blacksmith again. He'll use the heat crystal on your sword. You now can throw
your sword even if you're low on energy. Go back out and go left. Go into the
house on the dock. Talk to Impa. Go back the way you came.

Go to Shutoy Lake. Go into the second hut and take the KEY. Exit the hut. Go
to the last hut and go in (stay as high as you can using the tree limbs when
necessary). Talk to Impa. Go out the lower door. Now you must ride the
alligator.  Jump off it when you get to the other side and go right. Quickly
go up and into the door. Go up using ropes when necessary.  Go in the middle
gray door. Carefully drop down the left side staying as far to the right as
possible. Jump across the chasm and go in the lower door. Go down to the
other door and wait in front of the (water fountain?) for the Moblin Spear-
thrower to appear. Kill him and take the KEY he leaves. Go in the door.
Defeat Wizzrobe by moving to the right side of the screen, facing him and
just stand there. Don't do anything! His Disintegration Spell will reflect
off of your shield and back at him. Take the KEY. Use a rope to get up to the
second floor. Go in the door. Use a bomb on the skull wall and rescue Lady
Alma. She'll give you the CANTEEN (EMPTY). @

Go back to the Fairy Pool. Talk to the fairies again. @ Your canteen is no
longer empty. It is now filled with water of life. You may use the canteen
only once before you must refill it. Although, you may refill and use it as
many times as you need to.

Go to Dodomai Palace. Go talk to Impa. Use a bomb on the skull wall. Ride
the alligator. Jump off onto the rocks and go to the right. Exit the tunnel.
Use bombs on the soldiers. Take the KEY and go in. Climb up the curtain rope.
Go in the door. Climb the stairs. Use a rope on the ceiling to bypass the
rest of the stairs. Go in the door. Go up and to the right as high as you can
while avoiding the spells. Get as close to Hectan as you can (but don't cross
the gap) and slash at him with the sword. Go right. Go in the window. Talk to
the man. Go back to the main door (where you climbed the curtain rope). Use
the magic cloak and walk past the Wall Master (hand). Jump over the wall. Go
into the first door. Go up the stairs. Jump and slash at the painting. Take
the KEY. Go in the door. Talk to Duke Onkled. Take the gate KEY. @

Go to Nokani Forest. Go up. Go left as far as you can. Go into the hole in
the tree. Climb the trees. Go into the hole in the tree at the top. Climb
the trees. Talk to the woman. She gives you the FAIRY LANTERN. Use a rope to
get to the very top of the tree. @

Go get about 400-500 rubies.

Go to the Shrine of Gamelon. Use the purple magic cloak to walk past the
fireballs without taking damage. Talk to Impa. Go up to the top of the cave
and go through the passage. Again, use the magic cloak to get past the
fireballs. Go up the middle section of rocks when you come to a 3-way inter-
section. When you've went up as high as you can, use the green magic cape to
jump the chasm and get to the path on the left side of the screen. Climb up
to the top and enter the shrine. Jump and hit Onfac in the head with the
sword. Take the WAND OF GAMELON. @

Stock up on everything (including rubies: 300-400) (except the lamp oil - you
don't need oil if you have the magic lantern or the fairy lantern.)

Go to Reesong Palace. Use the purple magic cloak when necessary. Go right,
down the ladder, left. Go in the doorway. Talk to Impa. Go left until you
come to a bridge. Use a rope to get on the bridge. Go left and drop down to
the boulder. Blast it with the power glove and go through the gate. Go over
to the door and go in it. Use the purple magic cloak and go up. Kill the
second floating head and take the KEY. Go up to the top of the cave and go
through the door. Go right until you come to a pit. Drop down into it. Drop
again when you land. You now should be on a drain platform (looks like a
window with bars). Drop down a third time and climb the rocks to your right.
Climb up the ladder. Go in the door. Use a rope to get up onto the platform
and go right (stay on the platforms). Kill the Goriya (boomerang thrower) and
take the KEY. Go back to the left and go back out the door you came in. Go
down the ladder and jump over onto the drain platform (or drop down and use a
rope to get on the platform). Press button 2 to go through the passageway. Go
back to the pit again. Go up, then left to the door. This is it! Ganon!
Select the wand of gamelon and go through the door. Go up the ladder as soon
as you can and throw the wand of gamelon at Ganon. Climb up the chain and get
the key. Keep going up until you get to the door. Go in it. Talk to King
Harkinian to free him and win the game!
*************************** The End! ***************************************

Item   /    Where to get it   /    It's use   /   How to get it
-------------------------------------------------------------------
ARPAGOS EGG / Sakado / Give to the woman in the first house in Kobitan /
First door to the right on the backstreet of Sakado

ARPAGOS FEATHER / Gohiyan Ship / Give to the woman in Hanyu Forest / Go into
the door in the mast and go up as high as you can

BOMB / Sakado / Destroy boulders & kill enemies / Go into the first house and
strike it with the sword (if you have 20 rubies)

CANTEEN / Shutoy Lake / Carry water of life to use later / Rescue Lady Alma
in Shutoy Lake

FAIRY DUST / Fairy Pool / Give to the woman inside the last house in Sakado /
Defeat the witches and the fairies will give it to you

FAIRY LANTERN / Nokani Forest / It allows you to see all of the flying
creatures at Reesong Palace / Go to the very top of the trees in Nakani
Forest and talk to the woman

FLUTE / Kobitan / Temporarily stops all flying creatures (requires 5 rubies
per use) / Give the Arpagos egg to the woman in the first house in Kobitan

GREEN SHROUD / Aru Ainu / Use it to defeat Gibdo / Go into the last house
and talk to the woman

HANYU SPORE / Hanyu Forest / Give to Grimbo / Go to the right and go into
the hole in the tree trunk. Go left as far as you can, then keep working
your way down to the bottom of the screen. Go right, take the spore on the
tree stump.

HEAT CRYSTAL / Dordung Cave / Give to the fisherman on the backstreet in
Sakado / Go left and into the cave. Go up to the top of the cave and defeat
Gleeok.

KEY / Various locations / Unlock doors / Strike it with the sword

LAMP OIL / Sakado / Use in lantern / Go into the first house and strike it
with the sword (if you have 5 rubies)

LANTERN / Kobitan / Light up dark rooms and caves (requires lamp oil) / Go
into the last house on the lower path

LOAF OF BREAD / Sakado / Arpagos are attracted to it / Go into Tykogi Tower
and talk to the chef upon entering. Go into the third house in Sakado and
talk to the chef again.

MAGIC CAPE / Hanyu Forest / Jump farther (requires 5 rubies per use) / Give
the Arpagos feather to the woman at the end of Hanyu Forest

MAGIC CLOAK / Sakado / Become invisible to enemies (requires 20 rubies per
use) / Go into the last house with the fairy dust and talk to the woman

MAGIC LANTERN / Tykogi Tower / Light up dark rooms and caves without the need
for lamp oil / Rescue Mayor Kravindish

POWER GLOVE / Washubi Swamp / Destroy tough boulders that require 10 bombs
to destroy otherwise, or to kill enemies (requires 10 rubies per use) / Talk
to Grimbo when you have the hanyu spore

POWER SWORD / Sakado / You can throw your sword when all of your lifehearts
are full / Go into the second house with the lantern. Go up to the top and
go in the door.

REFLECTING SHIELD / Gohiyan Ship / To reflect spells (to defeat Wizzrobe) / 
Go in the door in the mast. Go up as high as you can and get the key. Go back
down and out the door. Go right - over to the big steel doors. Go in.

ROPE / Sakado / Climb up to places you can't reach / Go into the first house
and strike it with the sword (if you have 10 rubies)

RUBIES / Anywhere there are enemies / To buy items in the general store in
Sakado / Kill an enemy

Value of different colored rubies: Red -   1 rubies
                                   Green - 5 rubies
                                   Blue -  10 rubies

WATER OF LIFE / Fairy Pool, Ahitaru / refills all of your life hearts
(energy) / Talk to the fairies, talk to the woman who's located before the
giant fish
